Orlando Sequera: Welcome to your
Orlando Sequera: session. Number 2.
Orlando Sequera: Help you.
Orlando Sequera: You guys have some time to rest and get ready for
Orlando Sequera: our second session
Orlando Sequera: again. We are going to have
Orlando Sequera: breaks
Orlando Sequera: approximately every hour.
Orlando Sequera: but we'll have breaks
Orlando Sequera: throughout the session. And then remember, when we hit the 3.5 h Mark, we're gonna have a 1 h break. Okay, so we'll have
Orlando Sequera: our long break, and then we'll come back later in the day
Orlando Sequera: or
Orlando Sequera: part 2 of session Number 2
Orlando Sequera: again. Please remember to stay locked in during all breaks.
Orlando Sequera: Do not log off. You don't have to.
Orlando Sequera: You do not have to log off. Okay, so please stay locked in, especially if well.
Orlando Sequera: mainly.
Orlando Sequera: they looked in for every single break. But during the 1 h break we're going to be playing some videos. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: and that is important. Let them run in the background, and that is
Orlando Sequera: that's really important.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: Let's go over some housekeeping, some reminders. We have been putting some information in the chat
Orlando Sequera: as well as in
Orlando Sequera: the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: The first one is, please, if you already did a name check yesterday, and you're logging in today with the same information. You do not have to do a name. Check again. Okay, that's only
Orlando Sequera: for day one. You continue logging in the same way. You did just right. You don't have to do a name. Check again.
Orlando Sequera: All right, please, please, please. We have. We have it in the chat. We have it in the chat. You do not have to
Orlando Sequera: A
Orlando Sequera: to to check your name again. It's only one time, but you have to do it. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: also.
Orlando Sequera: please use the Q. A. For technical issues only related to the session. If you have audio issues, if you have
Orlando Sequera: technical issues or any learning platform issues
Orlando Sequera: we're going to cover
Orlando Sequera: as
Orlando Sequera: as car put posted in the chat. We're gonna cover some very important housekeeping items, and we need everyone's attention. That's why the chat is passed at this time.
Orlando Sequera: If you have a technical issue, please help our moderators by pointing out whether you are
Orlando Sequera: a perpendicular user or a non perceived user that's going to help us.
Orlando Sequera: And when it comes to accessing the resources, what we have in front right now is the way for you to access your resources if you are
Orlando Sequera: a per super, user
Orlando Sequera: so you have to go to Per CPU, as you see here. Make sure that you select the right.
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: the right channel, the Boot Camp Channel, which is the Project Management professional Pmp.
Orlando Sequera: 5 Day cohort. This is a 5 day cohort.
Orlando Sequera: and make sure
Orlando Sequera: that's that has that has to be selected. And in the far right, as you can see here in this.
Orlando Sequera: in this slide.
Orlando Sequera: click on resources. Click on that tab. And that's gonna show you all the resources that you need, including
Orlando Sequera: but not limited to the attendance tracker, the Exam Content outline
Orlando Sequera: formula for the exam.
Orlando Sequera: etc.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So please make sure that you do that.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: If you are not
Orlando Sequera: a per sepia, user
Orlando Sequera: you have
Orlando Sequera: access through Github.
Orlando Sequera: You have to use Github
Orlando Sequera: in order to access your resources. Okay, that's how you're gonna get the same information that we have in Percipio. You also have it in Github. If you're not up. If if you're a non per super, user
Orlando Sequera: you can go to this link, and that has been posted as well
Orlando Sequera: in the Q. And a. At the very top.
Orlando Sequera: So look for that, and you can just clicking in the folder that's gonna take you to the resources also. This is a backup for per super users. Anybody can use this link, this Github Link, just in in the event of percip you not working. Okay, so this will be
Orlando Sequera: the way for you to access these resources.
Orlando Sequera: All right
Orlando Sequera: again. Logging in with the correct name is your responsibility.
Orlando Sequera: But i'm gonna point
Orlando Sequera: point out one more time if you already did a name check yesterday, you do not have to do it again today. If you're logging in
Orlando Sequera: with the same information using the same platform. Okay, remember that these test messages are not gonna be answered. You don't have to do it every single day. If you logged in yesterday you're ready. Check your name. You send the test message, which, by the way, is not going to get a reply. You do not have to do it again. All right.
Orlando Sequera: Please make sure that you are logging in with the right information.
Orlando Sequera: If we.
Orlando Sequera: regardless of the the platform that you're using. Make sure that your name is showing correctly. But again, if you, if you send a test message already
Orlando Sequera: yesterday and you're logging in today, day number 2 with the same information. You do not have to send a test message. Right?
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: If you are having issues with percipio or skill. Soft.
Orlando Sequera: Oh, skilled port. I'm sorry you can contact customer support directly. That is skill. support.com
Orlando Sequera: forward, slash, boot camps for assistance.
Orlando Sequera: If you locked off you were dropped out or your connection had issues do. And then you rejoin, You do not have to let us know those messages are gonna be this, Miss, the same as the task messages.
Orlando Sequera: If you are getting disconnected, or if you're having
Orlando Sequera: problems with your audio problems with your video.
Orlando Sequera: then
Orlando Sequera: my recommendation will be to use
Orlando Sequera: zoom for login.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so you can log in for zoom the details.
Orlando Sequera: the login information for
Orlando Sequera: in the Q. And a. So you can join directly through. Zoom
Orlando Sequera: right?
Orlando Sequera: That doesn't change. It's the same information for all 5 days.
Orlando Sequera: Please review the instructions. If for your attendance tracker, As we said yesterday, there was multiple questions about the attendance tracker. Please make sure that you read the instructions in the document that's gonna help you
Orlando Sequera: how to on on how to fill out your
Orlando Sequera: attendance, tracker, and keep the records of your attendance.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: As we know already, we are saving the bandwidth. Your cameras and microphones are being disabled.
Orlando Sequera: you can participate with the chat, and please make sure that you change the blue box to everyone. I noticed yesterday that many.
Orlando Sequera: many participants had that blue box just to host and panelists. Please change it to everyone, so everyone can see your message.
Orlando Sequera: And now
Orlando Sequera: chat versus Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: Please use the chat for
Orlando Sequera: answering any questions that I might have throughout the class.
Orlando Sequera: I'm gonna
Orlando Sequera: ask some questions
Orlando Sequera: if you want to share some of your preferred tools and techniques as long as it is not disruptive, and you are able to contribute to a value.
Orlando Sequera: communicate with other participants.
Orlando Sequera: Questions do not go in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. Questions: going. The Q. A. We're going to use the Q. A. For that. If we start seeing the chat going out of control, we're going to pass it
Orlando Sequera: to minimize disruptions.
Orlando Sequera: Q. A. For technical assistance.
Orlando Sequera: Those are the questions that are gonna be answered first. If you're having promise with your audio, your video. As I mentioned already, the main recommendation is to log in through zoom. But if you have technical issues, those are the higher priority questions that are moderators are gonna be at.
Orlando Sequera: If you have questions about materials for the class, even though we have mentioned multiple times, how to access that through percipio or
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: for for non per CPU users. Okay, 2 ways that you have to do that and also
Orlando Sequera: content related questions, clarification and questions and lecture points. One thing that we're going to implement today is
Orlando Sequera: we're gonna have
Orlando Sequera: stopping points. We're gonna have certain at a at a certain specific moment in the class. We will, I will be addressing your questions so to minimize the disruptions. By the way, thank you so much for the feedback yesterday, but we are going to have some designated stopping points in the class
Orlando Sequera: that
Orlando Sequera: will allow us to
Orlando Sequera: go ahead and answer questions that are related to the topics that we're covering. Okay. So we're gonna try to make it as a less disruptive as possible. But
Orlando Sequera: you have to help us. You have to help us. I'm. Starting to see that the Q. A. A. Some of you are using him as the chat. That's not the intention. If you really have a technique list, use it for what it is, so help us to help you
Orlando Sequera: if you use it for what it is. If you have a technical issue, if you have questions about materials. If you have questions
Orlando Sequera: about
Orlando Sequera: the the topics that we're covering, so please make it relevant.
Orlando Sequera: We are going to have a enough enough time to address your content related questions. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: that we're gonna have the time
Orlando Sequera: to do that. All right
Orlando Sequera: again in the Q. And a. You might have some questions that are
Orlando Sequera: the same.
Orlando Sequera: Let's try to avoid reputation right? You might see a question in the Q. And a. But of course.
Orlando Sequera: let's try to keep it contained to keep it relevant. You might see a question that you would like to to know the answer to, and that's gonna help me. Please up, Vote, please click on the like
Orlando Sequera: on the thumbs up symbol. And those questions are going to move to the top, and we'll make sure that we address them, if you like to protect a particular question, click on click to a vote. So it moves to the top.
Orlando Sequera: and those are the most popular questions
Orlando Sequera: content related, and i'll make sure that those get addressed
Orlando Sequera: for
Orlando Sequera: for the class.
Orlando Sequera: Please keep in mind. Not every question is gonna be answered. Let's keep the questions related to the topics that we are covering.
Orlando Sequera: Unfortunately, not every question is gonna be answered. We're going to answer questions mainly questions that are relevant to the content that we are cover. Remember that the main goal for this class is to get you ready for the Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: Of course, there's
Orlando Sequera: There's also
Orlando Sequera: the I the intention to share and promote best practices for project management. But
Orlando Sequera: keep in mind that not every single question is going to be answered. Great questions, what are great questions
Orlando Sequera: They are going to be related to the course content that we are covering. Remember that we're going to have those designated
Orlando Sequera: moments in the class to address those questions. Please
Orlando Sequera: keep them coming, but they're going to be addressed at a designated time through the class to avoid disruptions. All right.
Orlando Sequera: please include topics that everyone will benefit from from learning it's about learning. It's a learning journey right, getting ready for your Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: And try to avoid duplication as much as possible.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: We have our moderators. There's a lot. There are a lot of questions in there
Orlando Sequera: in the Q. A. Already put again. One more time. You do not have to check your name if you already did it yesterday, and you're logging in today with the same information
Orlando Sequera: is live attendance required. Yes, this is a requirement by the Project Management Institute.
Orlando Sequera: If you take in this training to register for the Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: it is a requirement
Orlando Sequera: for live attendance. But we have
Orlando Sequera: some exceptions.
Orlando Sequera: You're allowed to me. If you make up the session by watching the replay. If you miss more than 50 min at a time.
Orlando Sequera: You will need to make up
Orlando Sequera: by attending the life session in a different fight. They cohort.
Orlando Sequera: Please check
Orlando Sequera: calendar.com for information about upcoming sessions
Orlando Sequera: right
Orlando Sequera: in case of absence.
Orlando Sequera: You can request a replay for a previous session by asking in the Q. And a.
Orlando Sequera: Or a past or current session by emailing the mentoring team@thisemailaddressmentoringatskillsoft.com. Please provide them with the information. So this is how you request a replay of a previous session.
Orlando Sequera: Then then email to mentoring@kilsoft.com. Please provide the following information: we have multiple cohorts: we want to make sure that we give you the right session, the one that you attended
Orlando Sequera: provide information on the Boot Camp cohort that you're attending this session number
Orlando Sequera: date and time.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: that in, if if at all possible, in your time zone, and that's going to help your
Orlando Sequera: mentors to provide you with the right. Replay this. There's an example here for the 5 Day boot camp.
Orlando Sequera: This will be an example pretty much for for all of you, if you are to request the replay for yesterday. This is the information that we will need to get@mentoringatskillsoft.com. 1 point that I want to make
Orlando Sequera: is that if you want to
Orlando Sequera: watch the replace for study purposes, you attended all 5 sessions, and you want to have access to the replace just for review purposes. There's no limit in requesting the replace for study purposes. Okay. But how do you do that? You can ask in the Q. A. Or you can send an email
Orlando Sequera: at this email address mentoring@skillssoft.com.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: Let's go over a recap Yesterday we cover, hey? Great content. We get started
Orlando Sequera: and let's go over the recap for
Orlando Sequera: the number one.
Orlando Sequera: And we talked about mainly about the business environment.
Orlando Sequera: That's what we talked about. That was a lesson one.
Orlando Sequera: We cover some basic
Orlando Sequera: definitions. We went over
Orlando Sequera: the foundation of project management.
Orlando Sequera: We also went over
Orlando Sequera: basic concepts. We know what a project is.
Orlando Sequera: It's a temporary endeavor that has.
Orlando Sequera: and by temporary I mean that he has a definite beginning and a definite end.
Orlando Sequera: It is not open, ended. That's operations right
Orlando Sequera: to with the purpose of producing a product, service or result.
Orlando Sequera: So that is the main basic definition of a project. But the main point is that he has
Orlando Sequera: definite beginning. It starts at some point in time, and he has a definite end. Operations are ongoing. That is the main difference between
Orlando Sequera: operations and projects. Okay, projects. They start at a certain point in time, and they end at a certain point in time. Temporary does not mean that they're sure. That's another misconception.
Orlando Sequera: Some projects can take
Orlando Sequera: many years.
they
Orlando Sequera: 25 years in some cases, and for those of you, as I was mentioned yesterday, that have experience with
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: the Government that's that's very common.
Orlando Sequera: but they will come to an end at some point in time. Okay, the operations are
Orlando Sequera: ongoing.
Orlando Sequera: So that's the main difference between the 2. And then we went over
Orlando Sequera: bye
Orlando Sequera: portfolios, programs and projects. So remember, projects are individual initiatives.
Orlando Sequera: If you combine
Orlando Sequera: a group of individual initiatives that we call projects
Orlando Sequera: together because they cover certain areas that are similar.
Orlando Sequera: That collection we call it program.
Orlando Sequera: and then we can even go at a at an even higher level. We can have collections of programs and individual initiatives, projects, and we call that a portfolio.
Orlando Sequera: and that helps organization, especially upper management. They
Orlando Sequera: they look at things different at a higher level, and that strategic grouping really helps
Orlando Sequera: a organizations to be aligned to make sure that they're
Orlando Sequera: making the right decisions for not only an individual project, but for all the produce in different areas. So they're trying to cover within the organization. That's what we mean by strategic alignment and project management provides a systematic framework
Orlando Sequera: that allows organizations to make the best decisions possible. And that's why we group it
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: in projects, individual initiatives.
Orlando Sequera: programs, collections of projects, and then portfolios, which is a collection of programs and individual initiatives or projects. So the decision making process
Orlando Sequera: it really works well. The goal that you may be wondering. But how does that help organizations? Well.
Orlando Sequera: it helps them. It's about decision making it's about decision making, and remember that organizations have limited resource, no organization, not even the Amazons of the world or the Microsoft of the world. They have limited resources. They don't have an an infinite amount of money, and an infinite amount of time.
Orlando Sequera: 2
Orlando Sequera: to to conduct their projects. They they have all them have limitations, so they want to be as efficient as especially in this day and age.
Orlando Sequera: As you know, the the the economies and turmoil right now. So in this day and age this is critical for organizations to have a systematic approach to make the best use of
Orlando Sequera: their limited resources. And that's where project management comes into play, because project management is.
Orlando Sequera: It's a repeatable process. It's systematic. It allows them to make the best decisions. The best use of the resources to really make those strategic goals that they have as an organization to come to fruition, and we do that through
Orlando Sequera: the lit project selection process.
Orlando Sequera: We organizations. We know now that they take into account
Orlando Sequera: multiple ways to select their projects like present value, net press and value pay back, and they're going to invest their resources in those projects that provide them with the higher benefits. Okay, that is.
that is really important to keep in mind.
Orlando Sequera: That's really important to keep in mind. So this net present value present value.
Orlando Sequera: By the way, i'm gonna i'm gonna share with you an anecdote on that on.
Orlando Sequera: I to calculate
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: the midperson value as a homework when I
Orlando Sequera: took my my
Orlando Sequera: I got my master's degree
Orlando Sequera: 12 years ago in project management
Orlando Sequera: in I remember one of the classes that I took.
Orlando Sequera: The there was an exercise, and it was to calculate the net person value of
Orlando Sequera: my master's program.
Orlando Sequera: Basically.
Orlando Sequera: So they gave us some information and inflation rate. I think it was 8 or 10%, and we calculated for the next 5 years. In the next 5 years
Orlando Sequera: it was that the best decision, right that that we were trying to. The goal was to get information from calculating that my present value and
Orlando Sequera: basically the No. I came up with a number that was very low.
Orlando Sequera: and little did I know when I went to class, and my
Orlando Sequera: our Professor, I was
Orlando Sequera: ask me, out of 25 people to actually share the the results of my calculation with the rest of the class, and
Orlando Sequera: I came up with a result I mean I probably did something wrong, but i'm coming up with a very low number. So basically based on this
Orlando Sequera: based on that present value, this is telling me that my
Orlando Sequera: masters program.
Orlando Sequera: I I Shouldn't: I shouldn't be my master's program, is it? It's not a good decision. So the Professor said. Exactly. Is that a true statement?
Orlando Sequera: And I said, Nope, I think there's a lot of intangibles is
Orlando Sequera: because the the financial aspect of it I think it is.
Orlando Sequera: There are a lot of intangible benefits that come with the master with the masters program, and he said, Exactly, that's where we were trying to to go with this exercise.
Orlando Sequera: So organs so organizations the ones that are smarter. They use those financial metrics.
Orlando Sequera: but they also look at in tangible. They it's the same principle.
Orlando Sequera: They it's not the point that i'm trying to make. Is
Orlando Sequera: It's not just.
Orlando Sequera: Am I going to make money?
Orlando Sequera: Okay, with this project? It's not just about profit, right? There are other
Orlando Sequera: factors that you need to take into account like intangibles.
Orlando Sequera: It could be corporate social responsibility. It could be helping the community. So look at the benefits, not just from
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: the tangible aspect. Do you also have to look at it from the tangible perspective? So that was the whole goal with that exercise. Okay. And at the end of the day. What organizations are trying to do is to add value is to add value with to the organization with those projects. And remember what we said. Value
Orlando Sequera: is defined by the stakeholders. Value is defined by your by the business, by your customers.
Orlando Sequera: by your customers. You do not define value for them.
Orlando Sequera: they
Orlando Sequera: will value definition is is gonna come from your customers. Okay?
Orlando Sequera: Then we also talked about
Orlando Sequera: 2 important concepts
Orlando Sequera: that we need to understand. For the Pmp. Exam: we talked about
Orlando Sequera: enterprise, environmental factors, and we also talked about organizational process assets.
Orlando Sequera: Those 2 are critical
Orlando Sequera: for the Pmp. Exam. For you to understand right? They're not going to ask you questions specifically on the definitions, but you need to understand what they are
Orlando Sequera: and the enterprise, environmental factors.
Orlando Sequera: amy factors.
Orlando Sequera: external or internal, that are outside of the control of the project team
Orlando Sequera: external.
Orlando Sequera: for example, marketplace conditions.
Orlando Sequera: Imagine if you're working in a software Development project and you are located somewhere just as an example in the mid west of
Orlando Sequera: somewhere in the midwest here in the Us. And you're trying to to get
Orlando Sequera: You need to you. You're trying to get software developers for your software program marketplace conditions. You may or may not have enough local a software developers to work on that project. If you're trying to look for for local software developers, right?
Orlando Sequera: So that is some you can control that. It's simply it's. It's just a fact
Orlando Sequera: or
Orlando Sequera: a economic situation or global supply chain issues right now, or
Orlando Sequera: all prices right? You can control that. But depending on your project, they are those factors.
Orlando Sequera: My P. Are going to have
Orlando Sequera: an impact on your project. And then internally.
Orlando Sequera: there are some other factors. The first one
Orlando Sequera: organizational culture
Orlando Sequera: that covers
Orlando Sequera: tons of topics that covers
Orlando Sequera: tons of topics. It. It is about the
Orlando Sequera: the values and the system of belief that the organization has in place
Orlando Sequera: the politics of the organization, all that is cover, and you need to. That is part of your job, especially if you're new to the organization to understand and cause. It also covers the power relationships, and those factors are gonna have an impact on your project. So organization of culture, you need to understand.
Orlando Sequera: And we also went over
Orlando Sequera: some important definitions that can help us With that we chase the type of organizational structure.
Orlando Sequera: For example.
Orlando Sequera: we need to understand whether
Orlando Sequera: the organizational structure is
Orlando Sequera: functional. If it's functional.
Orlando Sequera: we know that our level of authority as a project manager is low is very low to none.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, and that means that the decisions are going to be made by functional managers, and we have to work with that. That is
Orlando Sequera: a functional organization. Then we have the opposite side of this. The spectrum
Orlando Sequera: which is projectized organizations in which
Orlando Sequera: they
Orlando Sequera: and the team members employees is is basically they report to a project manager, and the way it works is that
Orlando Sequera: those teams. They move from project to project to project. So the project manager has a high level of authority.
Orlando Sequera: and it's also the functional manager for those team members, and they move from project to project to project. But in between those 2
Orlando Sequera: extremes
Orlando Sequera: we have.
Orlando Sequera: we call a matrix, which is a combination of the 2
Orlando Sequera: center more
Orlando Sequera: of organizations. What? Why.
Orlando Sequera: all within the matrix category. But the matrix category has 3 flavors.
Orlando Sequera: Those 3 flavors are
Orlando Sequera: week. Matrix that's very close to the functional organization in which the level of authority of the product manager is very low.
Orlando Sequera: That's what we have to pay attention
Orlando Sequera: 2. Then we have a balanced matrix.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So you have in a balanced matrix. You have a little bit more authority, and then you have a strum matrix that is closer to a projectized organization.
Orlando Sequera: So it is crucial when we're reading the questions, the Pmp. Exam. Questions that we
Orlando Sequera: try to pinpoint. What type of organization
Orlando Sequera: am I working
Orlando Sequera: with.
Orlando Sequera: What type of organization is this is this: You see the functional organization? Is it a is it a mate, a wig matrix? Or is it a projectized organization because they
Orlando Sequera: this issues that or or the actions that you're gonna be able to to make as a project manager are gonna change based on what? Based on the level of authority. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: pay attention to that. That is important. And then we wrapped up the session with 2 additional topics
Orlando Sequera: Project governance.
Orlando Sequera: This is about oversight organizations. All organizations are going to have some sort of oversight. Some of them have more oversight than others, but there's always going to be some level of
Orlando Sequera: a oversight or or project government. Okay, or going to large your organizations. Of course there
Orlando Sequera: more sophisticated, they might have more controls in place. These has also this. This has a direct relation with the type of industry. I can tell you that a NASA, for example, has
Orlando Sequera: governance oversight controls in place
Orlando Sequera: that all of the contracting organizations that are doing work for them have to follow. And then for you as a Pm. You have to follow oversight internal oversight of your own organization. If you're a contracting organization. And here i'm talking about the
Orlando Sequera: companies like North Rock Ramen, for example, or Jacobs or the Ibm, or those of companies that provide services to to NASA, for example, they have their internal oversight. But do you also have to follow NASA's oversight. So it is.
Orlando Sequera: It is important to keep that in mind. But you might be wondering even what about a startup do they have oversight? They do, because this is about the there's gonna be some level of oversight. They're gonna be watching a. Wh: how well are you? Are you tracking and managing your budget for your project, and the time that it takes
Orlando Sequera: right. So there are. There is going to be some level of oversight, and that's what we mean by product governance. And we need to know that
Orlando Sequera: we have to
Orlando Sequera: understand what is the level of governance that is going to be.
Orlando Sequera: that that is gonna be needed, or for our projects to follow, because we are gonna be governed
Orlando Sequera: regardless of the size of the industry. There is
Orlando Sequera: oversight, we and we have to be aware of that. As we mentioned yesterday, there is a great resource
Orlando Sequera: that allows organizations
Orlando Sequera: 2
Orlando Sequera: combined to help with best practices for project management. It allows them to also
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: In some cases
Orlando Sequera: they be it the it helps with the oversight, which is the project Management office.
Orlando Sequera: If your organization has a Pmo. In place or project management office leverage
Orlando Sequera: their knowledge, leverage their tools, and make sure that you get guidance from them when it comes to project governance they are. That's one of their main functions. They will help you with that. Okay?
Orlando Sequera: And we wrapped up the session yesterday with information about
Orlando Sequera: one type of requirement that is critical.
Orlando Sequera: and that is gonna that has multiple implications that touches multiple areas of your project, which is compliance.
Orlando Sequera: This is a make or break, deal
Orlando Sequera: non-compliance can
Orlando Sequera: be.
Orlando Sequera: Can the rail? Your project can
Orlando Sequera: actually be a disaster for your project? Non-compliance and it touches primarily 2 areas of your project.
Orlando Sequera: The first one is risk. So we need to understand the impacts of non-compliance. What if
Orlando Sequera: right, what happens if we are non-compliant? We need to identify those risks
Orlando Sequera: associated with non-compliance, and then follow the process that we have.
Orlando Sequera: or
Orlando Sequera: for risk management.
Orlando Sequera: We we'll cover that in detail later in the class. If you see in less than number 3 we have a specific topic of a risk.
Orlando Sequera: but in essence is about identifying those risks. Make sure that we document them
Orlando Sequera: in a document that we call Risk register, which is a running list of risks.
Orlando Sequera: We need to have someone assigned
Orlando Sequera: to that risk risk owner, and we also need to
Orlando Sequera: analyze the risk, understand the impact. We have 2 types of analysis that we're going to cover in detail when we get to risk.
Orlando Sequera: and we need to be able to identify our response, which is what we're gonna implement. If that risk comes to fruition at risk, by the way, is an uncertainty, something that may or may not happen. We'll talk about that in detail later.
Orlando Sequera: but non-compliance is huge. It's a type of requirement we need from the very beginning. We need to start working
Orlando Sequera: on identifying the compliance, and that changes from organization to organization that changes from industry to industry. So, and he goes back to that aspect of organizational culture right that that
Orlando Sequera: it it's also linked to to that topic. It is important that we are able to develop that situational awareness as quickly as possible. So for those of you that are starting your careers in product management.
Orlando Sequera: That is, step number one. Try to understand the organizational culture
Orlando Sequera: of the new organization.
Orlando Sequera: Try to understand the power relationship because all that is going to have an an impact in multiple areas of your project, hey? Sometimes those relationships are clear.
Orlando Sequera: Sometimes they're not. It takes time. It's not something that is gonna happen overnight. This takes it takes time, but at least as a good practice as a good project manager that i'm sure that all of you want to be.
Orlando Sequera: This is something that you have to do, starting on day one. And this is not written in any onboarding
Orlando Sequera: or training materials that you that you get at when in your onboarding process. If this is part of that tribal knowledge is something you have to figure out on your own, the quicker you do it, the better is going to be
Orlando Sequera: with your the better. It's gonna be for your projects. Okay, and it takes time. And you also have to knit work with people. Talk to people. Do You have to just do it on your own. Talk to people network with all the project managers it.
Orlando Sequera: You have to be proactive. It's not. It's not gonna come your way you have. This is part of your job
Orlando Sequera: to figure out the environment.
Orlando Sequera: Yes.
Orlando Sequera: those factors are gonna have an impact on your environment. And today we're gonna start. We're gonna continue
Orlando Sequera: our journey
Orlando Sequera: in the class. We're going to have great topics. We're going to start talking now that we have that
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: aspect of Project selection foundation, basic come since Co. Concepts cover project selection. We talked about governance and compliance. We're going to continue a journey with what happens when we start working on the product. On our project.
Orlando Sequera: things happen. This is where we start identifying those stakeholders, and we're going to go over that definition. We start
Orlando Sequera: and the stakeholders, and also engage in those stakeholders for a project.
Orlando Sequera: This is where we start forming the team for our projects.
Orlando Sequera: This is also when
Orlando Sequera: we need to be on the same page, build, share, understanding, not only for the team, but also for the stakeholders. We need to be on the same page. It's not just a team. We cannot be going in different directions. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: that's a recipe for trouble in the future we need to be aligned with what the stakeholders are expecting. We're building something for for them, not for us.
Orlando Sequera: for them.
Orlando Sequera: and it might sound trivial in my sound, even borderline cliche.
Orlando Sequera: But it is a true statement. I have seen that more often than not in which the team they think they are going in the right direction.
Orlando Sequera: but it's not necessarily aligned with the customer wants. So that is important about building that share. Understanding. This is where we also go, and a little more detail about the project approach?
Orlando Sequera: Are we going to go
Orlando Sequera: predictive or waterful, or to
Orlando Sequera: are we going to go adaptive or agile? Or are we going to go with a ha
Orlando Sequera: approach mixing. So remember something when we talked about agile yesterday as well.
Orlando Sequera: they are not mutually exclusive.
Orlando Sequera: The fact that you use, or.
Orlando Sequera: if you start using predictive. You can change that. You can change that if if it's not I it they're not mutual exclusive doesn't. You can change course. You can make some match. They it's not agile or traditional versus agile right? That's not the right
Orlando Sequera: a the right conversation. It is agile and traditional. You can dig. You can mix and match it. What works for your specific situation? You have
Orlando Sequera: total freedom to
Orlando Sequera: take aspects from traditional, that were for your project, and also in corporate aspects of agile that work for your project. That's perfectly fine. That's
Orlando Sequera: hybrid, hey? So we can. So we have basically 3 approaches that we can follow, and we're going to wrap up the session in the afternoon, talking about the planning aspect of our projects. So that's what we have in store for today.
Orlando Sequera: and we are going to get started all right.
Orlando Sequera: So before
Orlando Sequera: before I start, let's take
Orlando Sequera: i'm gonna take a few minutes
Orlando Sequera: to address to see if we have
Orlando Sequera: any content. Related questions in the Q. And a. Please vote. If you see any questions that are
Orlando Sequera: that are actually
Orlando Sequera: important, let me review.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, i'm seeing mostly questions about technical issues. We have our moderators taking care of that.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, I see one here in your example. Yesterday
Orlando Sequera: you mentioned FDA Inspectors interrupting to conduct a surprise inspection
Orlando Sequera: is this: Consider an opa on ef
Orlando Sequera: it is an E. I don't have any control over
Orlando Sequera: FDA inspectors coming in, so that that's any that will be an Ef: in that particular case.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: that's done. I'm gonna look for additional questions in the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: Content related.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right. I'm going to view the chat.
Orlando Sequera: I see mostly
Orlando Sequera: questions about technical issues in the Q. And a.
Orlando Sequera: There's some comments in the chat compliances of terms of conditions written by Well, of course. Yes, that in some cases you might have regulations that you have to be compliant with.
Orlando Sequera: Absolutely.
Orlando Sequera: That's a common in the chat. I think compliance. We have some terms and conditions written by government.
Orlando Sequera: Whenever we develop the application, we have to follow the terms and conditions
Orlando Sequera: exactly exactly. We have to be compliant. That's exactly
Orlando Sequera: what we need to know that we need to know that that's why we take into account Eef and opa.
Orlando Sequera: All right. I'm. Trying to look for additional questions in the
Orlando Sequera: There's another question. Our predictive and traditional Consider synonymous. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: for the purposes of this training. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: when you say traditional, we mean predictive, and you can also call it waterfall is the same thing. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: right.
Orlando Sequera: all right. So I think we're cut up with the questions. Let's get started with the content
Orlando Sequera: in.
Orlando Sequera: Now, we're going to talk about
Orlando Sequera: starting the project. We're gonna start with identifying and engaging our stakeholders. We also gonna follow with
Orlando Sequera: forming the team.
Orlando Sequera: Then we're gonna cover, build, and share a share understanding, getting it, getting everyone on the same page.
Orlando Sequera: and we're going to wrap up this lesson with determining the project. Approach
Orlando Sequera: these topics. Just so, you know. You might be wondering.
Orlando Sequera: Yesterday you mentioned the Exam Content outline
Orlando Sequera: multiple times.
Orlando Sequera: How is this related to the exam Content outline? Well, we have topics here that are related to the people domain, and we also have some topics that are related to the process domain. But
Orlando Sequera: and and when it comes to the time and triangle, we have topics that cover all 3 sites. So this is really, really, really important. Basically what we're covering is how we start projects. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: The learning objectives that we have
Orlando Sequera: the main outcome is.
Orlando Sequera: Define your stakehold, your project stakeholders, and
Orlando Sequera: discover the most effective ways to communicate with them. As we mentioned, we have to engage our stakeholders and the vehicle for that engagement is communication. That's how we keep our stakeholders engage. We keep them engaged through communication.
Orlando Sequera: Then we're gonna go over the best ways to form a team.
Orlando Sequera: Also, how can we get everyone on the same page when it comes to understanding the project, and how.
Orlando Sequera: by doing that, getting everyone on the same page, getting everyone aligned, and by everyone I mean the team and also
Orlando Sequera: the stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: That's how that related to the
Orlando Sequera: to increase in the chances of
Orlando Sequera: a success for our project. Okay, that is really important. We need to be on some page we need to be. We need. We all need to be moving on the same direction. We start going in different directions, and for those of you that come from the military. You know this better than me.
Orlando Sequera: Right. It's we need to be. We need to be on the same page. We need to be aligned if we need to be a well oil machine. You know this better than me those same principle here. Okay. But in this case it's not just the team. It's also your stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: We're also gonna go over
Orlando Sequera: the predictive and adaptive life cycle.
Orlando Sequera: how they work, and then the combination of it to a little bit in a little bit more detail. We're going to go over a hybrid with which is nothing but a combination of a predictive approach, and also an adaptive approach. And then we're going to make that decision
Orlando Sequera: which approach is the best fit for our particular situation for our particular project.
Orlando Sequera: All right. So that's what we have in store for this session.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: we're gonna start with.
Orlando Sequera: identify and stay and engaging stakeholders. This is something that happens
Orlando Sequera: at the very beginning of a project needs to happen at the very beginning of a project.
Orlando Sequera: By the way.
Orlando Sequera: you might be wondering what is the stakeholder?
Orlando Sequera: A stakeholder is the actual textbook definition. Stakeholder is
Orlando Sequera: any individual or group of individuals that can impact your project.
Orlando Sequera: or that could be impacted by your project.
Orlando Sequera: For example.
Orlando Sequera: for example, and I see some comments in the chat. Anyone has an impact, or could be impacted by the project. So that's one side of.
Orlando Sequera: I see a common in the chat. That's one side of it. One aspect of it, but it's also any any individual. A group of individuals that could also be impacted by the project that's a very broad definition. It's a very broad definition. Let's assume for a minute that we have.
Orlando Sequera: Our project is
Orlando Sequera: to build
Orlando Sequera: a highway, a new highway i'm going to use. I usually use the Us. But i'm gonna
Orlando Sequera: switch continents. We're building
Orlando Sequera: a new highway that is going from
Orlando Sequera: Western Europe
Orlando Sequera: all the way to Eastern Europe.
Orlando Sequera: Right? We're building a new highway, and based on that definition that I gave you.
Orlando Sequera: based on that definition that I gave you.
Orlando Sequera: I mean.
Orlando Sequera: can anybody give me an example of a stakeholder
Orlando Sequera: anyone that could impact or be infected by the project.
Orlando Sequera: I see some of you homeowners.
Orlando Sequera: state level governments, all Europeans, every driver, the population.
Orlando Sequera: all the employees, the customers, residents of Europe, Western and Eastern Europe. Exactly. And you guys are going exactly where I was going.
Orlando Sequera: Exactly where I was going right. It's not only all European citizens. What about the people that travel from the Us. And Asia or Australia to Europe, and they're going to be using the highway, their stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: as well. They by that definition they can. They can be considered stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: guess what?
Orlando Sequera: As a
Orlando Sequera: as an organization, as a as a as a building organization, the organization that is building the actual highway.
Orlando Sequera: We do not have unlimited resources we do not have. By that I mean, we do not have unlimited, and a limited amount of money and a limited amount of time.
Orlando Sequera: and we have to prioritize. We have to identify our key stakeholders for that highway. We have to go through this process so we can address that.
Orlando Sequera: So we need to focus on because and and the reason for that is because we don't have unlimited resources, so we need to be able to understand who the key stakeholders are, and
Orlando Sequera: go through this process off
Orlando Sequera: stakeholder, notification. And then the engagement aspect. But we start with
Orlando Sequera: identifying who those stakeholders are, if we bring that
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: that that notion back to an organization
Orlando Sequera: going back to the example that I used yesterday your
Orlando Sequera: A, the the project with a project that is developing a new software for the accounting department.
Orlando Sequera: You need to start by identifying who your key stakeholders are.
Orlando Sequera: and you have to go through that process. That is about
Orlando Sequera: that. That is
Orlando Sequera: crucial for your project. You need to work on your stakeholder. Identification Stakeholders come in many
Orlando Sequera: in many shapes, ways and forms. They They can come from
Orlando Sequera: multiple areas, and these are the typical
Orlando Sequera: project stakeholders that we have. These are a typical price stakeholders that we have. We have our end users. And in that example of the software for the accounting department.
Orlando Sequera: We have
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: We have end users in in that. In that aspect it will be the accounting
Orlando Sequera: they're counting people working with the software. The end users. We have our customers, we have employees, is going to be the organization. We have functional managers, we have our sponsors.
Orlando Sequera: we have
Orlando Sequera: business partners. In some cases. If we're working with older
Orlando Sequera: third-party organizations, suppliers and contractors could be the government could be the community. So this is
Orlando Sequera: really
Orlando Sequera: important for us to define. Sometimes see in some situations is
Orlando Sequera: very straightforward. It is easy to identify. It is easy to
Orlando Sequera: A to
Orlando Sequera: to pinpoint who the to to identify the stakeholders putting some environments is not that is it?
Orlando Sequera: It's really not that simple. So, working
Orlando Sequera: with a government, for example, when you're a government contractor, they the relationships are
Orlando Sequera: in some cases subtle, and you have to really understand who the actual who your end users are, Who your customer your customers are. They're not that clear card as it is in some other situation. So this is
Orlando Sequera: really it is really important.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: we also
Orlando Sequera: in the stakeholders. We have our team members, too.
Orlando Sequera: They are internal stakeholders, so they're they're going to be. Consider as
Orlando Sequera: they're going to be. Consider a stakeholder so anybody that can impact or could be impacted by the project. Another aspect that we got to take into account about stakeholders is that they take on a variety of roles, and they have different responsibilities in the project. That's why we have to start by identifying who they are.
Orlando Sequera: They include members of the project team
Orlando Sequera: customers and users.
Orlando Sequera: business or project partners.
Orlando Sequera: They may or may not be actively involved in project work. I'll give you an example. Going back to this software Development Project. We're developing a new software for the accounting department. We have
Orlando Sequera: stakeholders that are not necessarily going to be involved with project work
Orlando Sequera: like the it Department.
Orlando Sequera: they
Orlando Sequera: help desk is gonna provide support. Once we deploy the new software, the new accounting software to production. That's when the roll is gonna start. But there's still stakeholders. We gotta keep them.
Orlando Sequera: We we have to work with them. We gotta keep them engaged. We have to identify what's going to who those stakeholders are, and we gotta work with them. So it's not just about
Orlando Sequera: the project. Work the the customers that we have. We have to keep an open mind, and we have to be very thorough to understand those different relationship we have. This is a make or break deal for your project. This is something important.
Orlando Sequera: and this can be the cost for
Orlando Sequera: many issues, for many projects. If we don't know well a who this takes holders are
Orlando Sequera: A, and they change by the way, that because this is something the stakeholder notification is something that we have to perform
Orlando Sequera: in an ongoing basis in a project because people get
Orlando Sequera: promote it. People quit. People get laid off
Orlando Sequera: changes. Change is going to be a constant in your project. So you need to try to keep your stakeholder register. By the way, which is a list of stakeholders a. Up to date at all times for your project. Otherwise that's a recipe for destruction. This is
Orlando Sequera: this is really
really crucial.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: I,
Orlando Sequera: that I have for you here in this light.
Orlando Sequera: who were
Orlando Sequera: which are typically members of the project team.
Orlando Sequera: This list that you see
Orlando Sequera: and we're going to.
Orlando Sequera: Yes, the
Orlando Sequera: well, the employees, the sponsors, I see, and some of them are not they. The end users are not typically part of the project work and active, their employees, the customers and users. The sponsors should be active, ideally. Okay. So
Orlando Sequera: the goal here is to understand that stakeholders come in many
Orlando Sequera: waste ways shape Some forms. It's not just it. It's not really straightforward. In some cases we have to keep an open mind. We have to really perform a thorough identification process. Okay
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: as I was mentioning.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, great. But what what happens when we start identifying stakeholders? What do we do with that information? You might be wondering that might be a question.
Orlando Sequera: What
Orlando Sequera: are you, W. What are you? What? Where do we put that information right? We start identifying stakeholders, for example, for accounting a software project, we start identifying that
Orlando Sequera: one of the key stakeholders is the director of accounting.
Orlando Sequera: Then we have the accounting manager, and then we start
Orlando Sequera: we are able to identify the the accounts, receivable accounts, payable people, and some other a employees or some other end users
Orlando Sequera: in the accounting department. Where do we put that information for that? As we
Orlando Sequera: start collecting that information, we're going to create an artifact or a document that we call a stakeholder register.
Orlando Sequera: It is simply a spreadsheet. That's what it is. It is a spreadsheet with the contact information.
Orlando Sequera: If of those stakeholders that we were able to identify, that's what it is
Orlando Sequera: the director of accounting. That is the the position we need, the name. They contact information, phone number email, address.
Orlando Sequera: And also
Orlando Sequera: we can have a a field, a column in the spreadsheet about the expectations that they have about the project. We can do that, but it's just a running list of stakeholders. That's what we call the stakeholder register.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, and
Orlando Sequera: the they they mixed. And this is the first time we're going to see a plan here. We need to. Once we're able to identify them. We also need to work on
Orlando Sequera: creating a plan to keep them engaged.
Orlando Sequera: That is a critical aspect with our stakeholders. It's not just knowing who they are. We also need to keep them engaged.
Orlando Sequera: We have ways for doing that. We have what we call the stakeholder engagement, assessment, matrix. We need to understand where they are, who they are. So we can prioritize, because not all stakeholders are created equal. We need to prioritize. And remember, we have limited resources. So we have to prioritize, and that's where we use
Orlando Sequera: this grids that you see here. We start looking at multiple dimensions, the power and interest. For example, we start using this model so we can place them, and we're gonna see that, so we so we can then
Orlando Sequera: be as strategic as possible in engaging our stakeholders, for everything starts with identifying who they are, hey? And remember, this is something dynamic.
Orlando Sequera: Stakeholders are changing all the time, as I mentioned before, people get promoted, people get laid off, people get transferred.
Orlando Sequera: or we merge with other organizations. That means that our stakeholders are going to change, so we have to constantly pay attention. That's why the environment we're what we started yesterday that's why it's so important.
Orlando Sequera: If your organization merges with another organization or these acquired by another organization. If you're working the project
Orlando Sequera: and a good project manager, when you see that that's a red flag that will that should indicate automatically to you. Oh, my stakeholders can change. So
Orlando Sequera: I need to work
Orlando Sequera: with my sponsor to understand the impact of that merger, a process of that acquisition
Orlando Sequera: to see how to understand if our stakeholders are going to be changed. So those we need to be aware of our surroundings. I call that situational awareness for a project manager. That's why those ef
Orlando Sequera: are so important. Okay, we need to always pay attention to your surroundings, especially when you're working in project management. Those changes reflect that changes my my stakeholders. I need to go ahead and review and validate that what I have in my stakeholder register is up to date.
Orlando Sequera: That is critical, important. Remember also remember that for the exempt.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to stakeholder identification we
Orlando Sequera: need to understand.
Orlando Sequera: And and that's why we create the business case and benefits management plan.
Orlando Sequera: But that's gonna help us to navigate to have an idea who the stakeholders are
Orlando Sequera: right
Orlando Sequera: in.
Orlando Sequera: We have to review other artifacts that are going to be created for other project
Orlando Sequera: and issue impediment slog, although that's also gonna give us an indication of
Orlando Sequera: the stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: a requirements documentation
Orlando Sequera: that is related to the scope of the project that also can give us an indication of stakeholders. But we need to understand who they are. And also
Orlando Sequera: we need to understand what is
Orlando Sequera: the relationship that they have with the project, the level of interest, the level of involvement that is needed
Orlando Sequera: any intent interdependencies their influence. So someone like the director of accounting of the counting department.
Orlando Sequera: it's going to be a high interest and high influence type of stakeholder for your project. So we need to. We have to manage that in a certain way that we're going to see later. But you might have people from the it department. That is, in that case that's a little bit different.
Orlando Sequera: They are
Orlando Sequera: a the level of interest might not be as high, but we have to place them accordingly in some of the Grits, and we're going to see that a little bit later. But we need to get at least understand this information for every single stakeholder, because not all stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: our created equal, as I mentioned, and we have to prioritize, and you might be wondering what Why, every single stakeholder is important. But remember what I mentioned at the beginning of today's session.
Orlando Sequera: We do not have unlimited resources. We have a limited amount of time and a limited amount of money to complete our project. Okay, we don't have unlimited resources. Therefore we have to prioritize. We have to prioritize. And this is what
Orlando Sequera: these processes of stakeholder identification is going to help us with. And also
Orlando Sequera: after that, the stakeholder a engagement model.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, we have to prioritize.
Orlando Sequera: We need to assess our stakeholders. These are some tools that you can use
Orlando Sequera: to understand and try to identify your stakeholders. As I mentioned before, stakeholders can come in any way, shape or form. Therefore you should use multiple tools and techniques to identify them
Orlando Sequera: with your team and your
Orlando Sequera: project sponsor.
Orlando Sequera: or and even all the stakeholders that you have been able to
Orlando Sequera: identify already. Initially.
Orlando Sequera: you should use some data data gathering techniques.
Orlando Sequera: send them questionnaires and send them surveys.
Orlando Sequera: and you might be wondering what if I don't have a template for that? Well.
Orlando Sequera: first go to resource is going to be your Pmo.
Orlando Sequera: Or you should also check with other project managers there are gonna be in most cases most organizations have
Orlando Sequera: being through this process before, and you can leverage
Orlando Sequera: what's using the past, but if not, they're multiple
Orlando Sequera: tools out the templates out there. Bmi, for example, has a great resource that's called pretty mentioned to come multiple templates for that. And also do brainstorming. This is simple. Get everyone in a room and
Orlando Sequera: start working on identifying stakeholders. You get this from from the team. Chances are that your team members have worked in similar projects before they can help you with this.
Orlando Sequera: and then you have to start analyzing who they are. These stakeholders? What are their stakes in the project? What are their interests, what are their rights?
Orlando Sequera: A
Orlando Sequera: what type of ownership, what is their level of contribution to start validating and analyzing who stakes older. The stakeholders are. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And also this is
Orlando Sequera: another reason why we need to gather those opas. We have to review documentation depending on what we're doing. We have to review documentation. That's why we work with Opa as well. We have to perform document analysis, and that can help us to uncover possible stakeholders for our project.
Orlando Sequera: Once we analyze the stakeholders, the next step is to start
Orlando Sequera: working.
Orlando Sequera: AIM
Orlando Sequera: what I call intel for your stakeholders, we to
Orlando Sequera: classify the stakeholders we need to understand.
Orlando Sequera: We can classify them, and to to start prioritizing the level of power and interest that's one power of influence. These are dimensions
Orlando Sequera: that based on the information that we gather we can place them in the quadrant. We're going to see an example of that. So we can then prioritize and understand who they are, and then prioritize, so we can. So we make sure that
Orlando Sequera: number one. We know who they are. Number 2 that we're addressing the right priorities at the right time for our project. Okay, so these are ways
Orlando Sequera: to place them. This is information that it is that we have to to perform, and this is going to help us to be
Orlando Sequera: a to be very, very, very a successful increase. The chances of sense for a project. We need to know who they are and we to analyze and place them so. We can then prioritize our stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: before we get to that.
Orlando Sequera: We start with creating this stakeholder register. But now we're gonna take our first break. We're gonna take our first break, and when we come back. We're gonna talk about the stakeholder register. I'm gonna show you an example of the stakeholder register what I mean by that spreadsheet. And we're gonna start seeing a live demonstration
Orlando Sequera: of this of these topics. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: and we'll be able to answer a few questions.
Orlando Sequera: Once we get back, so enjoy your break and we'll be back
Orlando Sequera: welcome back, everyone.
Orlando Sequera: I would like to
Orlando Sequera: remind you of a couple of things before we continue with the content.
Orlando Sequera: The first one is.
Orlando Sequera: we have
Orlando Sequera: important information in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: please make sure that you read it.
Orlando Sequera: We're gonna be if the check gets out of control. We're gonna to pass it.
Orlando Sequera: But there is some important information in the chat, for you. Read the messages that our moderators are actually posting in in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: it is.
Orlando Sequera: We have some information
Orlando Sequera: that is important for you to know. Then
Orlando Sequera: please do not. Post comments. Try to use the Q. A. Section for what it is. If you have technical issues.
Orlando Sequera: please make sure that you start by stating whether you are a Per Cp. Or a number super, user like most of you are doing that. But it is important that you keep doing that and explain the
Orlando Sequera: issue that you're experiencing.
Orlando Sequera: We have
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to resources in the Q. A. If you go at the very top.
Orlando Sequera: if you're sorting by the most up vote.
Orlando Sequera: you have the information on how to access your resources is there for both for CPU and non per CPU users. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And one more thing about housekeeping.
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: zoom login information. Please keep it. If you get it yesterday. Please make sure that you keep the information because it's not gonna change. Okay, and you can use it again for today, tomorrow on the rest of the the sessions that we have. That information is not gonna change. Please store it. Let's try to minimize the number of
Orlando Sequera: repetitive questions, and one more time, if you already did a name check yesterday, you do not have to do it again today. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: you do not have to do it again today.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: Police. That's
Orlando Sequera: try to make it as
Orlando Sequera: as as good as possible for everyone as
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: Let's try. Let's try to be. Let's try to help everyone.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: let's try to help everyone with the flow of the class. This make it the best experience possible. Alright. So you do not have to do a name check if you already did it yesterday.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: okay.
Orlando Sequera: And let me take a look at
Orlando Sequera: before we continue. Let's go over some questions.
Orlando Sequera: a content, related questions. I'm going to start by reviewing the
Orlando Sequera: Q. And a. Remember that you can vote click on the
Orlando Sequera: thumbs up. They like button, so you can move it up to the top. I'm. Going to start by
Orlando Sequera: addressing those. There is a question here
Orlando Sequera: about
Orlando Sequera: the type of organizations
Orlando Sequera: with regards to those type of organization, functional matrix.
Orlando Sequera: or project ties. It's actually projectized.
Orlando Sequera: How do I know?
Orlando Sequera: I'm sorry the question. I lost the question.
Orlando Sequera: How am I able to identify when we first arrived to a new organization talking to people? Remember, if you're new to the organization, start asking questions to other project Managers
Orlando Sequera: start asking questions. Try to understand that as quickly as possible. With what type of organization to talk to your peers. That will be my recommendation. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: they will be able to guide you and help you with that.
Orlando Sequera: There's another question. Top, that is content. Related is the stakeholder register, a list of stakeholders or key stakeholders. It's a list of stakeholders, and we're gonna get. I'm gonna show you
Orlando Sequera: an example
Orlando Sequera: of
Orlando Sequera: the list of stakeholders that we call the stakeholder register.
Orlando Sequera: Do we have to identify key stakeholders? No, we have to identify stakeholders in general. But then we have to prioritize to know who the key stakeholders are okay.
Orlando Sequera: That's what we the step number one is to identify stakeholders. Then we have to prioritize that list.
Orlando Sequera: That step number 2
Orlando Sequera: with the stakeholder register.
Okay.
and
Orlando Sequera: okay, I'm going over.
Orlando Sequera: Let me just check to make sure.
Orlando Sequera: What is the strategy? Another question in the Q. A: what is this strategy to develop storage and stakeholders communication communication. That is your job as a project manager.
Orlando Sequera: Introduce yourself to them face to face. Call them. It's not just sending an email, make sure that they know who you are. It's about communication in multiple ways. Okay, that is crucial. We're gonna talk about that in more detail throughout the class. But that's how
Orlando Sequera: we can do that.
Orlando Sequera: do. There's another quick. So
Orlando Sequera: so that question, there's another question. Do all stakeholders need to be engaged.
Orlando Sequera: We have to prioritize right. That's it. Going to make a little bit more sense once we cover the topic. But we have to identify who they are, and then we have to prioritize, so we can understand who the key stakeholders are, and
Orlando Sequera: but some stakeholders need to be more engaged than others.
Orlando Sequera: All right? So that's a really good question.
Orlando Sequera: Another question. That's experience as a program portfolio manager account, or the requirement for months.
Orlando Sequera: Well, that's more about it.
Orlando Sequera: Application. Well, in essence.
Orlando Sequera: i'm going to venture to say yes in a way you were managing projects, so yes, I would say so
Orlando Sequera: right.
Orlando Sequera: reviewing the rest of the questions to see if we have anything else
Orlando Sequera: about content.
Orlando Sequera: anything else related to Content.
Orlando Sequera: There's a question in the Q. And a. Can the project sponsor? Lead the stakeholder register. No, you have to create the stakeholder registers not the sponsor.
Orlando Sequera: That's
Orlando Sequera: your responsibility.
Orlando Sequera: You are the Pm. It's your project.
Orlando Sequera: What are the key points to the 5 key stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, do you do you have to ask people? Do brainstorming sessions work as your
Orlando Sequera: a team members ask the sponsor and look at the scope of the project that you're working right? So that's an review documentation, multiple tools, multiple techniques that you can use
Orlando Sequera: to identify your stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: And there was another question
that out
Orlando Sequera: that I see here, and it is.
Orlando Sequera: should certain stakeholders be at a different physical project. As I mentioned, this is an ongoing process. Stakeholders are going to be changing through the project. So you have to
Orlando Sequera: okay review your stakeholder and they register throughout the entire project. Stakeholders change through other project.
Orlando Sequera: then will the key stakeholders not be added to a charter? No, the product chart is a totally different document. We do not add stakeholders to a charter. We have a stakeholder register for that.
Orlando Sequera: All right, let me review
the
Orlando Sequera: chat
Orlando Sequera: for questions.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to review the chat
That's the
Orlando Sequera: B. And P. Test focus on stakeholders. Well, you.
Orlando Sequera: as I mentioned the definition of a stakeholder, anyone that could impact or could be impacted by the project. But we need to identify the key stakeholders, and we create a list
Orlando Sequera: of stakeholders that we call the stakeholder register.
Orlando Sequera: But in the European Highway example you wouldn't engage American trials as much. Not really. We. We get a look at who's paying for that highway? Right? Those are your key stakeholders. That's a way to. So who's funding that
Orlando Sequera: that highway? That's where I will start. If I were to be the project manager, Those are my main customers right that the
Orlando Sequera: all right
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: all right. And
Orlando Sequera: are there controls of stakeholder information?
Orlando Sequera: Well, it's one of the artifacts that you have to keep as a project manager. Okay
Orlando Sequera: as a project manager, so you have to keep it.
Orlando Sequera: And this is going to change from projects to projects. You don't.
Orlando Sequera: We leave one a sample. There's another common in the chat for some projects. You want to sample pool of stakeholders, not just the closest people to it, not a sample you need to identify specifically who they are. Okay, You need to identify specifically who they are.
Orlando Sequera: And there's another coming in the chat in the European example. Consider the European Tourism Commerce Association. Yes. But again, who's funding that? I will start by doing that? Who's funding that pro that highway? And who
Orlando Sequera: right to
Orlando Sequera: right to see who's vested in that project. That's what you need to understand. To find out to understand who the key stakeholders are for your project.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: all right. So
Orlando Sequera: let's continue with the content. And this is an example of a stakeholder register.
Orlando Sequera: It is nothing but a spreadsheet.
Orlando Sequera: It's nothing but a spreadsheet.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, this
Orlando Sequera: and you also have an access in the to to this example in your Pdf
Orlando Sequera: version of the student materials.
Orlando Sequera: This is a stakeholder register, as we start identifying. Who the stakeholders are.
Orlando Sequera: We have to enter that information in the spreadsheet.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And it is information about who they are. Their name, information, their name.
Orlando Sequera: The title is this an internal stakeholder? Or is it an external stakeholder? What is the role in the project?
Orlando Sequera: What about
Orlando Sequera: their expectations and major requirements that they want to see a that are
Orlando Sequera: completed associated with the project. And what is their level of influence? Okay, what is their level of influence, and what is their or they're added to towards the program. Are they supporting the project?
Orlando Sequera: Are they neutral? Are they champion the project that My! That's code for sponsors right
Orlando Sequera: in some organizations. A pretty sponsor They also call in the champion the project champion.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: or are they resistors?
Orlando Sequera: What
Orlando Sequera: that? That's that's crucial for you to understand
Orlando Sequera: what is their attitude towards the project that is really key. And this example that we see here is tied up to the shop industries
Orlando Sequera: a lives lifestyle center.
Orlando Sequera: So but you're gonna have one specific to your project. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: it's going to be a.
Orlando Sequera: This is this charge specific to the shop industry example that we covered yesterday, that we mentioned this sort of a life cycle center, the intergenerational center
Orlando Sequera: that was been built in the oasis town and community. This is specific to a project. The stakeholder registers are always going to be specific to each project. Okay?
Orlando Sequera: And this is again some information that you might have this can change. This is just a a a template, just an example. But you can add more information. You can app, for example, the communication type, another column, the common communication type. I will definitely do that I I use. I do that for my own projects.
Orlando Sequera: A and communication type, is
Orlando Sequera: they, it's better to communicate with them through email is better to communicate them through a face to face it or a phone call, etc. I will add that the more enhanced you can have your stakeholder register, the better is going to be
Orlando Sequera: for you.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right, so
Orlando Sequera: is someone.
Orlando Sequera: Are they in favor of your.
Orlando Sequera: Are they in favor of your project? That's what we mean by by a resistor.
Orlando Sequera: are they? I'm sorry. Are they against your project? That's what we mean by
Orlando Sequera: by every sister. All right.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: this is just an example.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: this can be a little bit confusing and a little bit challenging
Orlando Sequera: for some of you, especially the more complex the industries, and the larger the organization. This can be a little bit more cumbersome, and especially if you're working, for example, as a contracting company with
Orlando Sequera: different levels of government, it can get really dense and not clear, but it is crucial. I have seen it first hand in with other project managers.
Orlando Sequera: especially if you're sort of starting their career
Orlando Sequera: that they didn't do a thorough a job in identifying their stakeholders, and that translated to
Orlando Sequera: challenges for their projects
Orlando Sequera: in in many, in many different areas. That's a really a
Orlando Sequera: that's a recipe for destruction. You need to know who your stakeholders are. Add them to that list and understand
Orlando Sequera: specifically who they are. You need to have that information, and also you need to keep in mind that they, the stakeholders. The list of stakeholders changes
Orlando Sequera: that changes over time.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: and we are going to be able to. We need to be able to
Orlando Sequera: understand that it is an ongoing. We do it at the beginning of the project, but
Orlando Sequera: it is an ongoing effort. Stakeholder notification we have. There's not a set formula to identify our stakeholders. We should do it every every 2 weeks, every 3 weeks. It sort of set formula for that.
Orlando Sequera: But it is something that we have to do in a proactive manner. My
Orlando Sequera: recommendation would be, whenever you see a change in the environment.
Orlando Sequera: acquisition, merger, or
Orlando Sequera: restructuring
Orlando Sequera: something of that magnitude that is happening at the organizational level. That's a red flag that should activate your your spiety senses as spider man you to be the product manager of spider-man.
Orlando Sequera: That should activate your spider senses to oh, this can trigger some things happening. There's a major change here. This can trigger, possibly a change in stakeholders and review that and work with the people that are there to help you
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: a couple of things that I I want to go back a couple of slides. So we have here in the example. We have the champions, the
Orlando Sequera: supporters, and their resistors. So the champions are
Orlando Sequera: stakeholders that are vested in the project, and they wanna make. They wanna make sure that it's probably get successful
Orlando Sequera: project sponsors. The product sponsor is the classic example of a champion. In some organizations they collaborate sponsor. That's what a champion is, someone that is best in the project, and wants to make sure that the project is successful. That should be your best go to individual. In this case we have.
Orlando Sequera: We have a few. We have the sponsor, which is the CEO of the organization. Then we have
Orlando Sequera: the principal of the organization, and we also have another champion, which is the which is a community of oasis, town community partnership. So leverage them. They can help you to make things happen. That's your first go to. But then you also have. We also have 2 kinds.
Orlando Sequera: You have some stakeholders that are
Orlando Sequera: some Some stakeholders are our supporters. That's great. We can. We want to keep them as supporters. They're in favor of what you're trying to do.
Orlando Sequera: and you also have some that are neutral there. Well, they they're not really. They don't really have a position. They're neutral. But then they once that you have to really work with. This is where I will start. If I were you. This is these are the ones that I will start
Orlando Sequera: to understand. Why are in this specific example. Right? Why are
Orlando Sequera: the Why is the chair of the the of the
Orlando Sequera: every sister to a project? Why is she against our projects? Why she not neutral, not supportive. And why are the local residents not
Orlando Sequera: supporting the project?
Orlando Sequera: Okay, we, I will start my work as a project manager to understand. Where are they coming from? Why are they against my project? They may have some valid points
Orlando Sequera: that we need to understand, but that is, that is crucial. Your job
Orlando Sequera: is ideally
Orlando Sequera: to change their
Orlando Sequera: attitude towards your project, to turn this
Orlando Sequera: into at least neutral
Orlando Sequera: that should be your goal as a Pm. Do you start working with them. How do you do that, You leverage?
Orlando Sequera: You are sponsored, you leverage your champions
Orlando Sequera: and you at you, and communicate with them, and try to understand where they come from.
Orlando Sequera: and we do that through communication. Okay, that is crucial. That is
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: that is really, really, really important for you to
Orlando Sequera: to do as a project manager. Okay, but this is the
Orlando Sequera: this is version: one
Orlando Sequera: off your
Orlando Sequera: a work with your stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: stakeholder register. This is present State current state.
Orlando Sequera: Now that I know who they are, what are the have, all the information and the inference and attitude, I want to make sure that I am able to identify
Orlando Sequera: who is supporting the project, who is not supporting the project, and also
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: I need to work on addressing those that are resistors. I need to work in addressing their concerns. They might have valid concerns.
Orlando Sequera: and we, I need to work with them. I will start by working with them to understand their their concerns and try to. Maybe there is some misinformation. There's some miscommunication, but they might have valid concerns and try to address that. That's part of your job as a project manager.
Orlando Sequera: Okay? Then.
Orlando Sequera: as we were.
Orlando Sequera: as as we were saying.
Orlando Sequera: it's more about the Don't fall for that pit full of thinking that your stakeholders is just about their titles. Right? It's it's way way beyond that. Do you have to really
Orlando Sequera: perform a thorough identification process
Orlando Sequera: to understand who they are. It's not just
Orlando Sequera: the title right. We need to understand
Orlando Sequera: the level of authority. That is what we call the power, and that's not the same as the leadership.
Orlando Sequera: This is just the level of a 30.
Orlando Sequera: Leadership is in the position of control given to individuals within an organization to foster a an effective and efficient function that is different. Authority is about
Orlando Sequera: exercising power.
Orlando Sequera: Those of you that come from the military know that way better than me.
Orlando Sequera: A. With your Co. For example, right.
Orlando Sequera: then
Orlando Sequera: authority is usually delegated to a person by a formal way. They have
Orlando Sequera: the form of process, and it involves accountability
Orlando Sequera: or certain activities is their neck on the line
Orlando Sequera: for the outcome of certain activities, then
Orlando Sequera: the mixed
Orlando Sequera: dimension that we have to look at is
Orlando Sequera: interest.
Orlando Sequera: What is their level of concern.
Orlando Sequera: What is the level of concern? Is it high
Orlando Sequera: as in they might lose a contract? If this project fails right, or are they only
Orlando Sequera: they are they only going to suffer a no direct impact
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to the outcome of the project.
Orlando Sequera: An example will be the software. For the accounting department, right?
Orlando Sequera: The director of accounting the accounting department. That's a direct impact that is high.
Orlando Sequera: a high interest, right?
Orlando Sequera: This individual wants to make sure this probably gets successful, but we might also have
Orlando Sequera: the director of it.
Orlando Sequera: Not necessarily.
Orlando Sequera: It's not a direct impact on it. The outcome of this project
Orlando Sequera: some ways it's gonna affect the entire organization, but it's not a direct impact. So that's what we mean by in
Orlando Sequera: then the level of influence. That's another dimension.
Orlando Sequera: This is
Orlando Sequera: their ability, the ability of the stakeholder to make an impact
Orlando Sequera: on
Orlando Sequera: the project
Orlando Sequera: or the work of the project team. So
Orlando Sequera: so we can understand. That is the impact to make, to have an influence on the outcomes or make changes right? That's what we call influence.
Orlando Sequera: And this is where we use based on the level of influence. This is where we use these terms.
Orlando Sequera: These are just suggestions, but this can change from organization to organization. This is where we
Orlando Sequera: it, where we have the the champions, the supporters, and
Orlando Sequera: the neutrals, or detractors.
Orlando Sequera: Right? So
Orlando Sequera: this is something that changes from project to project.
Orlando Sequera: Of course, similar situations in the that you have
Orlando Sequera: experience in the past can be a good starting point. But you have to tailor this to your project. Every project is unique. Every project is different. Make sure that you, tailor that to your specific project, because stakeholders might not be the same. Stakeholders are always changing. It's a dynamic.
Orlando Sequera: It it's a dynamic process. The stakeholders are always changing. Change is going to be a constant okay.
Orlando Sequera: So it is
Orlando Sequera: very important that we know who they are. And once we have this information in your
Orlando Sequera: and your stakeholder in in your stakeholder register, the next step is going to be
Orlando Sequera: to start analyzing those stakeholders. And this is what I was mentioning Before
Orlando Sequera: we have to start
Orlando Sequera: getting that intel
Orlando Sequera: about our stakeholders. We have to start prioritizing
Orlando Sequera: our stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: to understand.
Orlando Sequera: How can we prioritize them? And we can rearrange our stakeholder registered to version 2. For example, once we are able to perform, this type of analysis. This is what we do with stakeholder mapping. Okay, once we have that information about the
Orlando Sequera: level of power and the level of interest or the level of power and the level of influence. We can start mapping them
Orlando Sequera: in this grid.
Orlando Sequera: And we, for example, if we have let's, assume for a minute that we're talking about the
Orlando Sequera: project for the new software for the accounting department.
Orlando Sequera: They
Orlando Sequera: director of accounting right. That is, someone that has high power
Orlando Sequera: because it is a director.
Orlando Sequera: It's an upper management. It's a director, so it's high power. And what about the interest?
Orlando Sequera: Is the director of accounting?
Orlando Sequera: It's also high interest. So if we look at
Orlando Sequera: the the
Orlando Sequera: the grid.
Orlando Sequera: that stakeholder will fall here under, manage closely. That means that
Orlando Sequera: he's gonna go to the
Orlando Sequera: top
Orlando Sequera: of our stakeholder register.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, that means that whenever
Orlando Sequera: we get
Orlando Sequera: a phone call or an email or
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: a request for communication or a question from the stakeholder, we have to manage that closely. We have to be proactive in it, and be on top a. On on top of the the request that that these
Orlando Sequera: key stakeholder has. This is how you're going to know who your State do key stakeholders are, but you might have someone like the director of it.
Orlando Sequera: That is someone that is
Orlando Sequera: high power, right?
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: they
Orlando Sequera: The level of interest
Orlando Sequera: in the project is rather low.
Orlando Sequera: He's not necessarily under his realm.
Orlando Sequera: A is not they? They're not calling the shots when it comes to accounting. So those stakeholders we want to keep them satisfied. It's not that we're ignoring them, for we're just trying to prioritize right? So I have
Orlando Sequera: you. You're trying to prioritize and rank your stakeholders. But then you have
Orlando Sequera: some other stakeholders like the people, for example, that work in accounts payable, and accounts receivable for the the accounting department. They have low power.
Orlando Sequera: but they have a high interest in the project. They're the ones that they're your end users. They're the ones that are going to be using
Orlando Sequera: your
Orlando Sequera: your your software, your accounting, software we need to keep them informed.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, we need to keep them informed.
Orlando Sequera: And then we also have some other type of users like, for example, the help desk held this people.
Orlando Sequera: the multiple levels that you have in the help desk.
Orlando Sequera: They are low power
Orlando Sequera: and they are low interest. They're gonna be They're gonna be supporting the application once it goes live, we have to monitor their a.
Orlando Sequera: their their expectations. Basically, so this is how we can prioritize and
Orlando Sequera: be able to come up with a with a.
Orlando Sequera: With a system with an approach that is going to help us to understand, to prioritize our stakeholders and make sure that we are diverting our efforts to address the right priorities with the stakeholders. One thing that I wanted to point out I am not saying by no means that low power stakeholders are not important
Orlando Sequera: that those that we have to monitor or let alone those that are a low power and high interest are not important. I'm. No, i'm not saying that they're not important.
Orlando Sequera: Actually.
Orlando Sequera: actually, i'm gonna i'm gonna give you a
Orlando Sequera: i'm gonna go a little bit beyond beyond this They
Orlando Sequera: users your end users. They are in for important stakeholders. They're the ones that are going to be using the application.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: they're the ones.
Orlando Sequera: This is pretty management. It's about it's about building relationships
Orlando Sequera: working with your stakeholders. The key aspect is to be able to build relationships.
Orlando Sequera: you wanna and it's also about earning trust.
Orlando Sequera: earning trust building relationships. How can you earn trust? Let's assume that this is the first time that you work with this director of accounting?
Orlando Sequera: They don't know you. They don't know who you are.
Orlando Sequera: That nice to meet you, Mr. Orlando. Nice to meet you, ma'am, or Mr. Never work before with that individual. This is your project. So they don't know you, but guess what they know their people.
Orlando Sequera: They know the accounts, payables. It comes with several people. They know their people, they trust them. So this is the way it works in real life. You want to build relationships with
Orlando Sequera: the people that are going to be using your product service of result.
Orlando Sequera: Make sure that you address
Orlando Sequera: they their concerns, and you communicate with them. You keep them engaged, if they like, what you're doing with your project.
Orlando Sequera: That's how you build. Trust with your key stakeholders with that with that sponsor.
Orlando Sequera: That's how you build. Trust with them. It is crucial. It is crucial. Okay. And
Orlando Sequera: but we have to prioritize. We have to know who they are. We have to do this intel work so we can place our different stakeholders to understand who they are, because they're not all created equal, and you might want to validate who they are. You might have, for example, and I've been in that situation. I had an executive one time that
Orlando Sequera: turn out to be someone that was high power, but it turned out to be low interest in the project, but yet wanted to give input that wasn't really his place at that moment.
Orlando Sequera: And what I did is I work with my sponsor that leverage my sponsor. Remember, we're diplomats, we're not. We have to work with people to make sure
Orlando Sequera: we leverage a sponsor. I leverage my sponsor that helped me to a address the concerns, and pretty much to for that particular stakeholder to understand, to pretty much so, so he could stay in his lane at that particular time. So
Orlando Sequera: it is important that we perform this Intel. This is going to be changing this. This is also dynamic stakeholders change, and
Orlando Sequera: as stakeholders change, we have to also
Orlando Sequera: perform this validation with stakeholder mapping. We have to understand who they are, and we have to validate that. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So this is crucial. This is really, really really important.
Orlando Sequera: all right. And
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to the directions of influence
Orlando Sequera: this is this: can go
Orlando Sequera: upward with the brand organization that's upper management senior management. We can be them work, they the project hierarchy. This will be the team, the correct team members or specialists.
Orlando Sequera: It can be outward.
Orlando Sequera: It can be work when we talk about your If your your suppliers or other organizations outside of the project team, like suppliers or departments, or end users regulators like the FDA in my example, yesterday, or it could be side work. Right? These are your peers, your
Orlando Sequera: all the project managers or middle managers that are
Orlando Sequera: in competition for resources, because that that's where projects and we're gonna say. And and operations come together when it comes to resources, we're Still, we're we're competing for resources right? Remember what we said. We have limited resources that that we're all competing for. Okay. So that is.
Orlando Sequera: that is crucial. We need to understand that influence. That's the actual, as they call it here. This the best name for it, the social network of your project stakeholders. We need to understand who they are in some organizations. This is clear, then it is in some other organizations.
Orlando Sequera: and that takes us to. I think I showed this in
Orlando Sequera: a another
Orlando Sequera: in one of the questions, what is the salience model? And this is what it is. This is another way to
Orlando Sequera: map your stakeholders to understand, based on
Orlando Sequera: 3 dimensions.
Orlando Sequera: Do you look at the level of authority
Orlando Sequera: which is power.
Orlando Sequera: then their immediate needs, which is urgency, and also
Orlando Sequera: how appropriate their involvement in terms of
Orlando Sequera: the project
Orlando Sequera: is which is what we call legitimacy.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, these are 3. This is a three-dimensional model that you can use to validate your stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: there's some variations of this salience model. It's not always urgency, legitimacy and power. There's some variations that they substitute proximity for legitimacy, but it's basically the same process and you're trying to understand what you're doing with this
Orlando Sequera: models with this script. This is a 3D one the power and influence is a two-dimensional one. You're trying to understand. You're trying to map your stakeholders, understand who they are, a
Orlando Sequera: and validate
Orlando Sequera: validate their legitimacy, validate the the understand the power. Send your urgency into work right? So you know who you're not only know who your stakeholders are, but where do they fit in that social network of stakeholders that you have in the organization. This is critical. This is important for you.
Orlando Sequera: Why? Because
Orlando Sequera: you have to prioritize, you have to be able to prioritize, and these are the tools that are going to help you to prioritize when it comes to your stakeholders. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: this is really important.
Orlando Sequera: then
Orlando Sequera: this.
Orlando Sequera: It's something that we can escape from they. Our stakeholders are gonna have
Orlando Sequera: their own perceptions.
Orlando Sequera: and, as you know.
Orlando Sequera: perceptions
Orlando Sequera: can be damaging. They can be negative or they can be positive. That's why I was mentioning before. This is about building trust, earning trust.
Orlando Sequera: and it's about building relationships with your stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: And when we were mapping the stakeholders, they once that we have to keep informed their low power. Oh, low power! I don't care about them. They're low power. No, no! You trying to build relationships with those those stakeholders, and you're trying to build as much as possible
Orlando Sequera: a good perception of positive per perception that's going to help you. That's going to help you. How do you do that? You can is through communication. Okay? So you get a
Orlando Sequera: one approach that is
Orlando Sequera: going to help you with that is to perform.
Orlando Sequera: to do a holistic approach. A. That is customer, centric. That's why so important to understand who our customers are. Us all in any project. Always ask yourself and
Orlando Sequera: ask your team members that question. We understand well who the who our customers are. In some cases, As I said before, it's going to be very straightforward, but in some other cases it's not going to be that straightforward. We need to understand. Who are they who our customers are, and we're come building that positive.
Orlando Sequera: that positive perception. Okay, that is, that is something that can affect your project. And once you have, if you have a negative perception with you. Start making promises that you can that you cannot deliver, and that's what I mean. That can be damaging. That can be negative for for your project, and they can.
Orlando Sequera: They can have a a a major impact so kind of work on. But we to understand who they are, address them in a way that it's going to be positive for your project. Try to work on as much as possible. A. To create a positive perception.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: how do we build
Orlando Sequera: those relationships with our stakeholders. Now that we know who they are, we understand we were able to analyze them. We have all day intel, we know they are. We know their level of power level of legitimacy. They we know all the information we have been classified so
Orlando Sequera: great. What do I do now
Orlando Sequera: I need to start building trust with them. I need to start building those relationships with them.
Orlando Sequera: We have to use communication for that.
Orlando Sequera: We need to use communication.
Orlando Sequera: That's the vehicle that is going to allow us to understand, to get their feedback. Get the perceptions in
Orlando Sequera: we in, and that that's how we we can start working the solid ground for our project. Okay, this is also gonna help your team members to understand what the customer wants for our project
Orlando Sequera: that their perceptions. It's also going to help you to build those relationships
Orlando Sequera: with your
Orlando Sequera: A with your customers, with your stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: ultimately
Orlando Sequera: eventually build trust with them.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, and it's a little bit more than just communication. It's a little bit more than just communication. You are gonna be working with people.
Orlando Sequera: So your team members and also your stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: As we are here working with this class, you have to use emotional intelligence. We're gonna talk about that in detail. But just to give you a brief
Orlando Sequera: overview of what emotional intelligence it boils down to not letting your emotions
Orlando Sequera: dictate your actions. Okay, not letting your emotions dictate your actions
Orlando Sequera: thinking before we speak, especially when the motions are high. That's what we mean by much of intelligence.
Orlando Sequera: A. It's also about active listening that tied up to communication and interpersonal skills. Right? So we have to be diplomats. We have to network with people, we it's
Orlando Sequera: actively sending paying attention to what they say, and
Orlando Sequera: basically.
Orlando Sequera: being able to communicate and work well with others. And of course, multiple a communication methods. It's not just sending an email or just making a phone call, leaving a voicemail. No, I need if you have to send smoke signals, same smoke signals. So
Orlando Sequera: it is important to understand
Orlando Sequera: from the key stakeholders. What is there
Orlando Sequera: project requirement? The pre requirements that they have
Orlando Sequera: and their communication preferences. So, going back to the example of the software? For accounting, understand what is
Orlando Sequera: the communication? Preference for them? Is an email? If it is it instant messaging? Is it a phone call, or is it face to face? It is important for us to understand that we're key stakeholders, and
Orlando Sequera: we'll take stakeholders, the rest of them. We can have regular project communications, and in some cases this is where we have those project status, information or meetings.
Orlando Sequera: and then
Orlando Sequera: to reach out to large to large groups. You want to leverage other tools that you're not gonna have time to have a a one on one interview with every single stakeholder. If your project has hundreds of them right, so some cases you can send that questioner surveys.
Orlando Sequera: You can have sessions that are brainstorming sessions that you can even use.
Orlando Sequera: Hmm, digital media like email campaigns, websites, group chats.
Orlando Sequera: posters or advertising, but multiple ways. But the goal is to capture that feedback and perceptions from your stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: All right
Orlando Sequera: in.
Orlando Sequera: It is
Orlando Sequera: extremely important, as I mentioned before. How can we keep our stakeholders engaged in? The answer is through communication. But we need to be strategic about that. We have to plan
Orlando Sequera: on how we're going to communicate with those stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: We have 2 plans that are that are gonna work hand in hand.
Orlando Sequera: We have
Orlando Sequera: one. That is
Orlando Sequera: the stakeholder engagement plan.
Orlando Sequera: and this this plan is going to help us to come up with strategies
Orlando Sequera: to keep our stakeholders engage. Once
Orlando Sequera: we know that if the information
Orlando Sequera: once we identify our stakeholders, and we have all that intel about them.
Orlando Sequera: Then we have to come up with an engagement plan. Okay for
Orlando Sequera: these. These are these are the preference that we have to keep them engaged.
Orlando Sequera: We have to work with them. These are the prefer communication methods.
Orlando Sequera: We need this concert to be engaged with our project heavily engaged with our project. We gotta build that for us. Build a trust with them. We keep them engaged at all times. Some other stakeholders. You don't need.
Orlando Sequera: They don't need to be engaged at all times. We we with the project team, but some of them you do so you have to strategize and come up with a
Orlando Sequera: best way possible. The best Friday is possible to keep them engaged throughout the project, so they know that when you need information from them, they are available, and you have to coordinate that with them. But you have to plan for that, and
Orlando Sequera: and it goes hand in hand with the communications management plan. This is another plan that we have, and these 2, by the way, are part of our overall project management plan.
Orlando Sequera: But the Communications management plan goes into a little more detail about the type of communications
Orlando Sequera: that communication strategies that we're gonna follow in our project. So we have to work on planning for that developing strategies for communication as well. So stakeholder and communications are areas that are closely related because
Orlando Sequera: we keep our stakeholders engage through communication. Okay, really important. And for that we have to also analyze our
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: The requirements that they have for communication.
Orlando Sequera: We need to understand
Orlando Sequera: what the requirements are for communication. This is going to help us to.
Orlando Sequera: They understand their communicational needs.
Orlando Sequera: and this might sound trivial. You might think. Well, maybe we have more. Most people all people use use, email, or we can send a text. No, but we need to understand
Orlando Sequera: what works best for each stakeholder.
Orlando Sequera: Do not Don't do ever assume that just oh, I sent an email. That's it. No, that's bad. Project management there, that's only one communication method. A
Orlando Sequera: phone calls face to face. Interview you need to is your job to decipher what works best with your stakeholders, especially with the key stakeholders. You need to figure that out and tell you that for my own experience
Orlando Sequera: that's a crucial aspect, especially with key stakeholders from those that you need, input from if it you need to decipher what works best for them. Is it email? Is it instant messaging? Is it a a a phone call? It's it a face to face interview.
Orlando Sequera: You need to figure that out. They're not gonna it's not their job to communicate with you. It's the other way around. If your project you are the project manager. So that's how you're going. That's why you have to perform this communication requirements. Analysis. This is how you're going to be able to
Orlando Sequera: be able to determine the frequency, the models and technologies. This is how you can plan to be effective and successful, and
Orlando Sequera: it's basically
Orlando Sequera: as simple as a question or asking them questions. What is your prefer communication method, and how frequent would you like to? What frequency would you like to to have for communications, and how frequently do you want to get status reports
Orlando Sequera: on your project? etc.? That's where you're gonna be asking those questions. And once you have that information, you should add that to your stakeholder register. So that's a that's an important.
Orlando Sequera: That's an important topic. All right.
Orlando Sequera: all right. So we are ready for
Orlando Sequera: our next break.
Orlando Sequera: and we're gonna take a 10 min break when we come back. We're gonna continue with the content. And we are
Orlando Sequera: going to
Orlando Sequera: answer some of the questions.
Orlando Sequera: and we're going to continue
Orlando Sequera: with the company.
Orlando Sequera: Enjoy your break. Thank you very much, everyone.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to continue with the class.
Orlando Sequera: Hopefully. You enjoyed your break.
Orlando Sequera: and I would like to address
Orlando Sequera: some of the questions that we have.
Orlando Sequera: Remember, Content related questions. Use the Q. A. And vote on them. Okay, i'm gonna go and answer the ones
Orlando Sequera: that have the most votes.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: okay
Orlando Sequera: from the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: Is it risky to label someone at Resistor
Orlando Sequera: on a report that could spill
Orlando Sequera: outside of the project
Orlando Sequera: outside of the Pmo team.
Orlando Sequera: Great question. Thank you for asking this question.
Orlando Sequera: this type of stakeholder identification process
Orlando Sequera: and also stakeholder analysis. This is something that we have to keep.
Orlando Sequera: This is
Orlando Sequera: intel that we have to keep
Orlando Sequera: a I don't want to say secret, but we have to make sure that only the team, and if there's a pmo they can have
Orlando Sequera: access to that information. But this is definitely something that will never share with our E. With the, with, the with the external stakeholders. I will never share a stakeholder register information. This is your analysis. This is your Intel, and
Orlando Sequera: this is something that can help other projects in the future
Orlando Sequera: A. With lessons learned. But this is something that you have to keep internal
Orlando Sequera: for the team. This is part of that intel. I would ensure this stakeholder registers. Of course it's not that anything bad is going to be there, but I wouldn't share this information outside of the
Orlando Sequera: project team or the Pmo. If there is a Pmo in place so great question, so that's how you address, or you mitigate that risk. Yes, it is risky. I wouldn't share that with the whole world. I will keep it contained just to the project team and to the Pmo. So all the projects in the future can leverage
Orlando Sequera: that lesson learned. That's one document that we had that we can review from similar products in the past in the lessons for repository of the organization. So that's a great question. Thank you for asking that question. So
Orlando Sequera: we keep it contained.
Orlando Sequera: There's another question. I am not seeing a big difference between the 2 plans, stakeholder, engagement and communication management, plus they are in the past to your point. They were. Consider one
Orlando Sequera: stakeholder stakeholder management was part of communication there. But they are 2 different things we need to stakeholders are so important. It is a key aspect
Orlando Sequera: over time Pm. I realized, and for the management practitioners realized that stakeholder was
Orlando Sequera: a separate area, even though they're closely related. But it was its own separate area. We have to identify. We have to analyze.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: the engagement portion.
Orlando Sequera: We do that for communication. But we need a specific plan. It is a key aspect we have to make sure that we dot all the eyes and cross all the Ts
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to our stakeholders. That's why we have a separate plan because it's a key area that can derail our our projects. If we don't have a the right stakeholders identified, and if we don't have the stakeholders engage through other projects. So they are 2 separate areas. Of course
Orlando Sequera: the vehicle for stakeholder engagement is communication. They are still closely related. But you need 2 different plans to make sure that you cover all the basis. That's why that's why we have it a separate plan. So for the exam.
Orlando Sequera: Assume that you have 2 separate plans. Can that changing in an organization? Yes, but for the Pmp. Exam purposes they are 2 separate plans. Great question.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: There's another question
Orlando Sequera: to. We need to.
Orlando Sequera: I'm. Really a question from the Q. A. Do we need to in to make this stakeholder as you mentioned? Or should it be available publicly. We should, as I mentioned before the case, the stakeholder register should be contained to the product team and the Pm. MoD. You don't want to share that
Orlando Sequera: with everyone. It it it should be contained, of course, if the sponsor would like to see it. Yes, but do you have to keep it contain not, it's not to share with with everyone
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: Our internal regulations.
Orlando Sequera: by our our internal regulations, consider Eefs.
Orlando Sequera: It's in turn to the organization. Those are internal policies. I would say that you're talking about internal policies with the organization. That is an example of an organizational process asset, not an ef
Orlando Sequera: It's an organization or process asset.
Orlando Sequera: There's another question in the chat. Should certain stakeholders be added at different faces of the project.
Orlando Sequera: it's not that they need to be added. We need to perform the stakeholder identification process in an ongoing basis.
Orlando Sequera: They are going to be some events. If there are any changes in the organization. There are going to be some events that trigger that should trigger that stakeholder identification process. But
Orlando Sequera: it's not necessarily that they need to be at a different fixes of project you have to throughout the entire life cycle of the project. If you get hold of any
Orlando Sequera: event or any trigger that could have an impact
Orlando Sequera: on changing the stakeholders. For example, merger on acquisition, layoff
Orlando Sequera: promotion changes in the organization. Then
Orlando Sequera: you should review and validate your stakeholder register.
Orlando Sequera: All right
Orlando Sequera: do our stakeholders change if we're dealing with the waterfall versus a major project.
Orlando Sequera: Stakeholders are stakeholders, regardless of the approach the 2 are not related you have to identify who they are. Do you have to perform the same type of analysis, regardless of the approach that you follow? So in both
Orlando Sequera: that is applicable to both.
A.
Orlando Sequera: To both situations
Orlando Sequera: Do stock holders, or it is.
Orlando Sequera: are part of stakeholders, not 2 different things. Stockholders means that your own stock that's you purchase talking the
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: in the market. That's a different thing. So not the that's that's a that's not the same as stakeholder. No.
Orlando Sequera: okay
Orlando Sequera: stakeholder register is like creative who is Who in your project? In a very simple way. Yes, but it's a list of stakeholder, the shortest, the simplest way to explain it's a list of stakeholders that needs to be validated throughout the entire project Life Cycle.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: I'm: looking for more content. Remember to post your content related questions in the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: There's another question. Do we need to include stakeholders and grace the chart 2 different things: the racist chart we're gonna get. When we get to a point i'll explain what the racing chart is but
Orlando Sequera: a 2 different things.
Orlando Sequera: That's a that's a different artifact.
Orlando Sequera: What would you do If your stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: sorry.
Orlando Sequera: What would you do if your stakeholders had conflicting views on an important issue aspects?
Orlando Sequera: I will
Orlando Sequera: do my best
Orlando Sequera: in getting them in a conference room if I don't possible, or in a call together and try to give them the chance to explain their views and have my
Orlando Sequera: a team members present to understand their views, especially if they are key stakeholders. I will communicate bottom line. I will communicate with them as soon as possible, and I will try to get that information as quickly as possible.
Orlando Sequera: so that will be the top of my
Orlando Sequera: That will be my priority.
Orlando Sequera: Do stakeholders differ in water for agile noise. The same concept applied regardless of the approach. But you need to understand who they are, who who the end users are, who the actual customers are stakeholders are
Orlando Sequera: gonna be stakeholders, regardless of the approach you need to validate that
Orlando Sequera: that that is applicable regardless of the approach you have to work on understanding who your stakeholders are. You perform this
Orlando Sequera: a processes regardless of the the development approach that you're going to follow for your project.
Orlando Sequera: It's going to be
Orlando Sequera: I I if if anything, the type of organization right? But
Orlando Sequera: do you have to identify your key stakeholders?
Orlando Sequera: Another question where the key points to identify key stakeholders, for
Orlando Sequera: we we have been mentioning that you talk to people, you same questioners and service. You ask your team members multiple ways.
Orlando Sequera: multiple ways of doing that.
Orlando Sequera: What is the sentence model? We answered that already we went over that
Orlando Sequera: a influence on it to it, a good idea to put out there no
Orlando Sequera: internal to the team and the Pmo.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: Can you give a few examples or questions when new to an organization talking to people, find out about stakeholders. They you get a top, do you?
Orlando Sequera: If your project is to develop a new software for the coming department, talk to the accounting, find out who the key players are, and start asking questions.
Orlando Sequera: Leverage the Pmo. If there's a pmo in place. Talk to other project managers.
Orlando Sequera: but you gotta ask for guidance and help. You have to be proactive. Don't. Wait
Orlando Sequera: for other people to give it to you. It doesn't work like that. You have to be proactive. You're your own advocate, and you're just tour for your project. That's why you're the project manager.
Orlando Sequera: All right. I
Orlando Sequera: answer that question. So
Orlando Sequera: who is responsible for validating this, they all the registers that after he has been developed, the project manager.
Another question: do you have an example from NASA? You had a stakeholder
Orlando Sequera: communication challenge that you overcame. Yes, I do. I have multiple.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: again it goes. It goes back to
Orlando Sequera: analyzing and understanding their requirements. This particular slide that we have here. We need to perform that talk to them, Communicate with them, try to find out what is your preferred way
Orlando Sequera: of communication, but sometimes they might tell you it is voicemail, it is. Leave me a voicemail if i'm not in my office or send me an email or it, etc., a phone call or a face to face. I would like to have a face to face meeting with you on a weekly basis.
Orlando Sequera: but
Orlando Sequera: he might be more than one. I had a really challenging stakeholder, and it turns out that a I sent emails the emails. Never.
Orlando Sequera: They were never replied. I sent I call and left voice. Mails never got a reply, and
Orlando Sequera: I even went and printed out some documents that left her in her office a.
Orlando Sequera: I left the documents in there.
Orlando Sequera: I was ready to send smoke signals, but then I realized that when I asked the question in using a I am at the time W. What were we using? We we were not using teams we were using.
Orlando Sequera: and I forgot the name of the application. But we were using instant messaging, and I sent her a message to reply right away. So put it this my job
Orlando Sequera: to decipher
Orlando Sequera: what works for that stakeholders. It is not the other way around. They don't have to communicate with you. You want to make sure that
Orlando Sequera: you understand, do you? Do they like work to figure out what works best with that stakeholder. It's your project. So you are the project manager for a reason. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: So it is a.
Orlando Sequera: But it's not just sending an email that is not gonna cut it. It's way much more than than that.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, I
Orlando Sequera: what? Our champions, your sister and neutral. We went over that
Orlando Sequera: another question: Are the resources for templates to for
to work
Orlando Sequera: our stakeholders not to identify stakeholders? A survey questioners? Yes, I would recommend you from Pmi. Do you have project management.com.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: I
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So let's continue with the content.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: so this is important. This is going to help us to address
Orlando Sequera: a multiple
Orlando Sequera: to perform that intel analysis that we have to to perform for our for our project, and understand what our stakeholder communication needs and best and preferred ways for communication.
Orlando Sequera: Also.
Orlando Sequera: some of the communication methods that we use. There are multiple
Orlando Sequera: ways to communicate. They
Orlando Sequera: the best one, but it's not always possible it's face to face.
Orlando Sequera: But we can. Also.
Orlando Sequera: We use video conferencing tools like the one that we're using for this class
Orlando Sequera: phone calls. So that's
Orlando Sequera: that. That's one way. But it's not the only way you can also send emails. You can also use text messaging or send or Eastern messaging.
Orlando Sequera: Even
Orlando Sequera: use
Orlando Sequera: websites and social media. That's also another way to communicate, especially if you, if you want to reach out to a large audience, think of
Orlando Sequera: your own Internet at your own organization. If you want to send communication to a, it is just a document that you want to send, for example, instructions they manual for your software for the accounting department. You want to share a document and is, do you want to?
Orlando Sequera: You want to do it in the most efficient way? Put it in in sharepoint and sharing that folder with your users. That's one way of communication. So that works really well.
Orlando Sequera: A. It's not always
Orlando Sequera: just an email. It's not just the phone call. So multiple ways. We have multiple ways that we can that we can communicate. And of course we have physical ways, like body language, gestures. We gotta pay attention to those queues as well, and when we are in a
Orlando Sequera: conference room we can use a whiteboard and then start a having a brainstorming session, for example, so multiple ways of communication that you can use that you can have so, but it it.
Orlando Sequera: Remember, it's not just sending that email. That is not gonna to this one way. But it's not just sending an email.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: And this is something important to
Orlando Sequera: remember for the exam. We have
Orlando Sequera: basically
Orlando Sequera: what we call push communication. And then what we call pull communication methods
Orlando Sequera: push very simple to understand. Think of an email right. Would you click on a button and we send an email, or when we make a phone call that's push, pull is
Orlando Sequera: the best example for pool communication is sharepoint.
Orlando Sequera: You upload a document when you want to reach out to an actual, to a large number of users, and it's more effective. It is way, much more effective, and to to do it this way, Using the pool communication method.
Orlando Sequera: you post your document in a sharepoint site and share that with your
Orlando Sequera: with with your users, with your stakeholders, etc. Right? So that's what we call pool. So pull communication, Think of sharepoint, push
Orlando Sequera: email or making a phone call. And of course we have conversations. This can be face to face, or this is interactive. It can be face to face or virtual, and that is a type of communication method, interactive right?
Orlando Sequera: And of course, for agile teams
Orlando Sequera: you do not have to be collocated all the time by co-located, I mean within the same physical space 6 feet from each other. No, you can be in different your graphic locations and still be agile. The goal is to be able to collaborate, have the means to be able to collaborate using a
Orlando Sequera: technology that we have available nowadays. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: But push, send in the email pull sharepoint.
Orlando Sequera: Think of that.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to communication.
Orlando Sequera: we are gonna have some challenges. And there's some aspects that we have to keep in mind that might serve even as
Orlando Sequera: in some cases they may be some, some constraints that we have to take into account.
Orlando Sequera: We have to consider
Orlando Sequera: the method for that's why we performed
Orlando Sequera: that
Orlando Sequera: communication, requirement, analysis with our stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: and then we have to.
Orlando Sequera: This is where both the older engagement and communication
Orlando Sequera: pretty much come together, if if you will
Orlando Sequera: in a way that we have to take into account these factors
Orlando Sequera: the urgency.
Orlando Sequera: How quickly do I need to send this information? Where do I have to provide it
Orlando Sequera: the availability and the reliability of technology. Does everybody have access
Orlando Sequera: to this technology? Do we all have Microsoft teams? Do we all have zoom? Is it allowed? By the by, by, the organization, etc. So we gotta make sure that we know that the ease of use, the project environment.
Orlando Sequera: the language, remember, as we mentioned before, we might be working with teams that are global teams that are actually in different geographic locations, so that language and formality of the organization, the information. I'm sorry, then.
Orlando Sequera: Sensitivity and covering confidentiality of information for those of you that have worked with the Government different government levels doesn't have to be the Federal government. Only here in the Us. Multiple levels of government or any of your countries, European countries. It's the same principle, right.
Orlando Sequera: There are some principles and sensitivity and confidentiality that you have to apply for some information. It
Orlando Sequera: here. The Us. Working with the Federal Government we used to call a I never work with a classified information.
Orlando Sequera: I worked with a sensitive, but on classified.
Orlando Sequera: That was the old classification now is called Kui.
Orlando Sequera: and basically
Orlando Sequera: you have to make sure that you take that into account. A. When you're sharing information you have to validate the audience multiple aspects, and who needs to receive that information. Those of you that have a that coming from the military know exactly what I'm. What i'm referring to we need to.
Orlando Sequera: This is another another re information why we have to review our opa. There might be some guidelines. There might be some policies that we have to follow when it comes to posting content to social media. For example, this is pretty cool. This can be a make or break even
Orlando Sequera: someone. Some people can be removed from their they from their jobs by violating these communication Protocols communication. Opa.
Orlando Sequera: I remember that someone at some point in time there was.
Orlando Sequera: There was a problem. There was an accident with a Spacex
Orlando Sequera: rocket lunch, and
Orlando Sequera: the incident was filmed, and
Orlando Sequera: they was posted in social media, and they found out who it was, and the person was working for Spacex, and I think that was a cost for termination. So we have to
Orlando Sequera: make sure that we know those communication protocols a and any data Protection law regulation, for example. Gdpr. Papa, Anything that is applicable to our.
Orlando Sequera: to our, to that type of project. We gotta make sure that we take that into account and any accessibility requirements, multiple angles that we have to look at when it comes to communication.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, multiple aspects
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to communication. Another
Orlando Sequera: aspect that we have to take into account. This is the basic communication model.
Orlando Sequera: and here we have
Orlando Sequera: mainly a sender and a receiver.
Orlando Sequera: and we, the sender, is
Orlando Sequera: transmitting a message.
Orlando Sequera: The receiver is
Orlando Sequera: acknowledging the message and providing feedback to the sender
Orlando Sequera: through a medium.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, but
Orlando Sequera: is not that simple? There is something that is highlighted here.
Orlando Sequera: which is noise. And think of what's happening right now with all of us in the class
Orlando Sequera: we have.
Orlando Sequera: i'm sending information for you to successfully pass your Pmp. Exam. And also promoting best practices for project management.
Orlando Sequera: And you are the receivers. You are acknowledging the message and providing feedback through
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: resources that we have available. We have the chat, and we have the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: fortunately we have had some noise, especially with the chat that we're trying to keep under control
Orlando Sequera: to make sure that is the the communication process happens, and you are able to receive the information as intended, and it is beneficial for your preparation for the Pmp. Exam: so noise is going to happen. This is just an example, and we got to take into account multiple
Orlando Sequera: multiple aspects. They're highlighted here, some of them.
Orlando Sequera: It's about the culture. Remember the chances are that you're gonna be working with
Orlando Sequera: a teams that are diverse
Orlando Sequera: their people from different cultures get to take that into account. Different genders, different professions.
Orlando Sequera: And we all have biases and having a bias, is it's okay. It's part of human nature, right? The problem comes with those a systems that's a different story. But we have to take into account that biases you have to be able to overcome that, and then
Orlando Sequera: it so it and it happens on both ends. It happens with the receivers, and it happens with the centers, so we have to try to find that happy medium which is what we're trying to do with this class. So the communication actually happens. Okay. So we all we all have to a contribute, so that can happen
all right
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to engaging our stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: It really.
Orlando Sequera: once we have the plans in place.
Orlando Sequera: we have to execute on the strategy, right.
Orlando Sequera: and it's about making sure that they are involved.
Orlando Sequera: Your stakeholders are involved, based on their needs, based on their expectations based on their interests and based on the potential impact they can have on the project. We gotta get them involved. Some of them need to be more involved than others. Remember, they have their daily duties. They are not
Orlando Sequera: going to be available. 24, 7 for you. They have work. They
Orlando Sequera: probably have multiple people multiple projects. I'm: sorry. And they are working in multiple endeavors and plus operations, and their basic people usually just take a key stakeholders or basic people. They're a your sponsors, your your
Orlando Sequera: your key stakeholders for your project. They're usually basic people. So, but you need to get them involved and get that commitment from them. That's why it's so important to build that relationship with them and build that trust and that trust.
Orlando Sequera: Use those.
Orlando Sequera: And you also need to be a
Orlando Sequera: strategic when it comes to using the right
Orlando Sequera: management strategies. But remember, you're not managing your stakeholders. You're managing their expectations. You're managing the communication. Your management. You're managing their engagement. You're not managing them as an individual. You're managing their expectations. You're managing their involvement. That's what you're managing
Orlando Sequera: for them. And again as I've been mentioning before
Orlando Sequera: it boils down to build, trust. It boils down to keep those relationships. It is important you're in the business of building relationships during the business of networking. You're in the business of earning trust and building trust with other individuals. That's a key aspect of Project management.
Orlando Sequera: One
Orlando Sequera: example
Orlando Sequera: of a stakeholder engagement access to matrix the with that it's also known as seam is what we have here. Once you have your stakeholders identified in your stakeholder register.
Orlando Sequera: you should
Orlando Sequera: work and understanding, Are they?
Orlando Sequera: I did? Are they resistant? Are they resistors to your project, or they were system to your project?
Orlando Sequera: Are they neutral? In some cases you might have some of them there. Don't even know about your project. They're unaware. Are they supportive, or the are they leading? Okay, so you should try to
Orlando Sequera: a perform this analysis, to understand, and the goal here is to understand present state.
Orlando Sequera: and then future state or desire engagement. Let's start somewhere
Orlando Sequera: on day, one after you perform your stakeholder identification. This is where they are, all your stakeholders, and
Orlando Sequera: you also going to identify. This is where I meet them. So
Orlando Sequera: this is future state, or this is combining the 2.
Orlando Sequera: This is where they are
Orlando Sequera: right now current. They're leading, but we need them to be supportive. So that's fine. Either they they can. They. They're right now leading, but they we need them to be supportive. We don't want that to fall to resistant or unaware. If we have
Orlando Sequera: stakeholder. Number 2 right now is supportive.
Orlando Sequera: but the disarming engagement level is leading. We need them to be a little bit more active. But anyone notice something that in the desire engagement level we do not want to have anyone. As for assistant.
Orlando Sequera: that's why I was recommending you to identify who those stakeholders are.
Orlando Sequera: I will start working with them, understanding. Why are you against the project? What are your Why are you not? What is your
Orlando Sequera: Please share with me as the Pm. Why are your resistance to point? They might have some valid points, and you definitely want to a understand that as quick
Orlando Sequera: you need to.
Orlando Sequera: At least we need to move them to at least neutral, if not supportive. But you shouldn't have any stakeholders as resistant. This is an accident waiting to happen
Orlando Sequera: for your project. Remember your but it's about building relationships. It's about building process of a building work
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: I see that some of you are
Orlando Sequera: posting questions.
Orlando Sequera: Contempor related questions go in the chat, not in the I'm. Sorry. Go in the Q. A. Not in the Chat contem related questions
Orlando Sequera: go in the Q. And a.
Orlando Sequera: And vote on those questions. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And we have been. This is what we have covered so far
Orlando Sequera: related to
Orlando Sequera: the exam Content Outline is about collaboration with our stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: We need to understand their engagement needs for our stakeholders, and we need to know who they are, we need to keep them engaged when we perform this intel about your
Orlando Sequera: about the stakeholders where the communication needs, and what are the level of power the level of interest. We can start prioritizing our stakeholders. We have to categorize our stakeholders, our day supporters of the resistors. Are they a
Orlando Sequera: Are they neutral. Are they on aware we have to perform that, and then come up with their best strategy possible to keep them engaged. That is crucial for your project, and this is tied up to communications. We need to understand their communication needs and also use
Orlando Sequera: the plethora of communication methods that we have available
Orlando Sequera: based on their needs and based on the stakeholders requirements. Okay, communication is the vehicle that is going to allow us to engage our stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: That's pretty much a summary of what we have covered so far.
Orlando Sequera: and that's gonna take us to
Orlando Sequera: our next topic, which is topic be forming the team. I would like to take a look at some of the questions, and remember Content, Related questions are going to be in your Q. A. Not in the chat, in your Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: In your Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: I'm. Going to root
Orlando Sequera: just to re the chat.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: i'm gonna review the Q. A. For content related questions.
Orlando Sequera: If the best communication is face to face. Should you be always following up with a written summary many minutes to ensure people
Orlando Sequera: have something to go back and review
Orlando Sequera: that way you do not have.
Orlando Sequera: 2 weeks ago you said moment.
Orlando Sequera: That's a question in the Q. And a.
Orlando Sequera: The answer is
Orlando Sequera: the best. The best communication way is face to face. That is true, but it's not always possible. But remember, you have to perform the analysis of your stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: communication requirements to understand which ones are the most efficient communication methods with your stakeholders. They're always gonna be a meeting. They might not be. You might not have them available for a meeting face to face. So you have to understand what works for them. You don't they don't have to adjust to you. You adjust to them. That's the point
Orlando Sequera: the important point that I'm trying to that I'm trying to make and based on, based on that, you
Orlando Sequera: develop your strategy. Okay. But you should use
Orlando Sequera: multiple communication methods.
Orlando Sequera: There's another question: Why use numbers and not names in this and the same you can use either or on ultimately.
Orlando Sequera: what is trying to take away the the bias. That's that's the reason why. But you can use either or in the same.
Orlando Sequera: That's another question in the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: Why? On the communication requirements. Analysis. There is a predictive icon. It's only applicable to predictive.
Orlando Sequera: It's a. It's going to be applicable to both. It's applicable to adaptive as well to agile.
Orlando Sequera: you have to communicate, regardless of the approach.
Orlando Sequera: Are there any platforms that are off limits on professional? That we should be aware of? That is a question to your organization
Orlando Sequera: that's a
Orlando Sequera: in some organizations. Zoom is not allowed.
Orlando Sequera: So that's a question for your particular organization
Orlando Sequera: question. Have I used the same. Yes, always. That's super important. You need to know who they
Orlando Sequera: where the stakeholders fall. That's really important into work that you have to perform. You need to understand who the resistors are and work with them.
Orlando Sequera: It's another question in reference to the metric: what does leading mean
Orlando Sequera: in leading driving the project drive very active driving the project. You want your sponsor to be leading right? So, driving the scope, driving the direction of the project. That's what we mean by leading
Orlando Sequera: another question
Orlando Sequera: in my example of stakeholder register, what is major requirements? Well may your requirements about it's usually tied up to key stakeholder major requirements about scope. My, I want my prior to be deliver on time within budget.
Orlando Sequera: covering all the scope that was agreed upon. So those are. That's what we mean by major requirements about the project
Orlando Sequera: based on the example which is the example of power interest based on the definition. Where we went over the
Orlando Sequera: you can replace him influence by interest, and it's the same approach.
Orlando Sequera: It's the sameiest model, particularly tied to adaptive hybrid approaches. Nope.
Orlando Sequera: It works regardless of the approach.
Orlando Sequera: Another question is, what happens if the stakeholder interest is low and low power, but they tame to scope, creep. The project.
Orlando Sequera: Well, we're we're mixing a couple of things one that shouldn't happen. If it's low power, low interest, they shouldn't be any we that's why we need to validate.
Orlando Sequera: We need to validate the stakeholders. That's ultimately what we're doing with this Intel, and if they try to add scope.
Orlando Sequera: we should lever. That's what we leverage our sponsor that we keep that under control, so that we need to to. That's where that legitimacy
Orlando Sequera: dimension of stakeholders come into play. We need to know the play key players are, and who the decision makers are.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, that's why we perform this analysis
Orlando Sequera: to validate our stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: Would a resistor be prior to prioritize higher? Well, no, I will prioritize higher a key stakeholder, high power, high interest, high influence.
Orlando Sequera: But I will start you. You're kind of mixing a couple of things. I will start with addressing the concerns of our resistor. Once I use the same model, for example.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: Another question in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: I'm. Sorry in the Q. A. I'm. Reading the questions from the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: We'll hire
Orlando Sequera: authority. CEO Program Manager, direct Project manager to at key stakeholders. Such a. Government Congress. I don't really
Orlando Sequera: will hire authorities
Orlando Sequera: direct project manager to add key stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: No.
Orlando Sequera: Nope.
Orlando Sequera: you are this tour of your project that usually doesn't happen is they they have a lot going on on their plate to be telling you what to do. Do You are the project manager, for a reason? Sure answer is no.
Orlando Sequera: It seems like stakeholder analysis, a stakeholder engagement assessment matrix are very similar and a little bit repetitive. It is crucial. Why have both? Because it is a crucial area of your project.
Orlando Sequera: it can make or break your project.
Orlando Sequera: Another questions.
Orlando Sequera: Could you give us some additional examples of the Tractors any? The thing is that is very specific to each project you. It's any individual, a group of individuals that are against your project that are not supporting your project in the example of the accounting software. It could be
Orlando Sequera: the end users. They might be resistors. They might. They might feel that their current software is working well. They're used to it. They have work with it for 20 years, and they don't want to change it so they can be resistors, so that that's a that I. It changes. It depends on the project. It's very specific. To each project.
Orlando Sequera: Each situation is different.
Orlando Sequera: Okay? And
Orlando Sequera: why do we do another question in the Q. And a: what do we do in a situation
Orlando Sequera: where the stakeholders have a conflict of interest? We need to understand that's why we need to understand really well who they are, and communicate with them
Orlando Sequera: and validate their concerns. Get
Orlando Sequera: and leverage your sponsor. Always leverage a sponsor, so it's about communication, understanding their positions, validate their needs and try to get people on the same page. That's part of your job as a project manager.
Orlando Sequera: No question. W. W. Could you share a real project management plan.
Orlando Sequera: Can we all have all the spreadsheet, at least to document? We're going to be going over the different topics, and we're going to be talking about different components.
Orlando Sequera: It it's we're gonna be doing that throughout the class. Basically.
Orlando Sequera: Another question.
Orlando Sequera: Will the Pmo office have a list of prefer communication for typical stakeholders. Normally, that's not the case. This is something specific that changes from project to project. You should do that. You shouldn't rely on what other people did. I wouldn't rely on what other people did in the past for that. I wanna
Orlando Sequera: Because and why is that? Because stakeholders change? It might not be the same stakeholders. Okay, so I will do that on my I wouldn't rely on what this is something that you have to do with your team.
Orlando Sequera: So sure Answer. Is No
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: Can I group
Orlando Sequera: lower power, high interest? Another question in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: Can
Orlando Sequera: a group lower power, high interest stakeholders be collectively consider of high-powered. You can group them in some cases
Orlando Sequera: that
Orlando Sequera: that is possible.
Orlando Sequera: But i'll be I'll be careful with that I will be careful. Remember, i'm not saying that low power, low interest are not important. I make sure that I highlighted that. But yes, you can group it's it's also. You can group users and maybe combine. They
Orlando Sequera: change the classification. So yes, it is possible. Sure answer is yes.
Orlando Sequera: If a proscope is changed due to a known factor we have. We're not covering scope, so we'll. I'll address that when we get to scope
Orlando Sequera: what is meant by score creep. I'll address that when we get to scope.
Orlando Sequera: If there are teams or stakeholders, then is it enough to add the team? If there are teams that are stakeholders, then is it enough to add the team name
Orlando Sequera: as a stakeholder instead of adding names team members in global.
Orlando Sequera: I will add them individually
Orlando Sequera: that's the team. The project manager developed these alone. You lead this effort, but you can rely on the team and you get help from the team.
Orlando Sequera: You can get hope from the Pmo. You can get help from the sponsor
Orlando Sequera: you get help.
Orlando Sequera: What is your responsibility to make sure that this is done?
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: A
Orlando Sequera: another question about communication methods push pool by posting that they may pushing. Nope, you are. You are
Orlando Sequera: publishing the document in a sharepoint site, and people are pulling the document
Orlando Sequera: from the sharepoint side. That's why they call it pool.
Orlando Sequera: Another question, if it's If a stakeholder is difficult to reach out, how can we address this challenge? It's up to you. That's why you're the Pm. Figure out what communication method works for that.
Orlando Sequera: A stakeholder is your job?
Orlando Sequera: That is your job?
Orlando Sequera: Another question. Can you explain more? Why would you move someone from leading to supportive
Orlando Sequera: it's not necessarily about their role. It's about their posture towards the project, and in some cases you might need them just to be supportive, to be there when you need them. Not necessarily leading the project.
Orlando Sequera: It's not about overstepping.
Yeah.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: Let's continue with the content
Orlando Sequera: forming the team. This is the next topic. Here
Orlando Sequera: we are going to work with the team. We're going to build those behaviors that are
Orlando Sequera: a that are going to allow us
Orlando Sequera: to work as a cohesive unit.
Orlando Sequera: and I have to figure out what
Orlando Sequera: they, what skill set do we need to do the work.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: how can we.
Orlando Sequera: How can we progress a. Do our best to make sure that we are that we are able to
Orlando Sequera: complete, to do the work that we have to do with our with our with our project.
Orlando Sequera: These changes
Orlando Sequera: forming the team changes if we are following.
Orlando Sequera: If we are following a predictive approach or waterfall. We need to understand the requirements First.
Orlando Sequera: after we understand the requirements, the scope of the project.
Orlando Sequera: Then we work in
Orlando Sequera: resource management.
Orlando Sequera: and that's what's gonna help us to understand the different resources that we need not only people, but also equipment the equipment materials and supplies to complete the project. Okay, that's how it's done in predictive. But for
Orlando Sequera: for adaptive, if we're following an that approach it's a little bit different. We put the team together initially, and then we work on supporting the project requirements because the scope is changing. If we're following an adaptive approach.
Orlando Sequera: the scope is fixed. If we're following
Orlando Sequera: predictive approach, so the key aspect
Orlando Sequera: to this is
Orlando Sequera: the type of scope that we're working with, and the approach that we're following, but nonetheless we should. It. It's all about building those team agreements, how we're gonna work as a team, If for our project, and how are we going to interact with each other as a project, and we should
Orlando Sequera: be able to develop a resource management plan.
Orlando Sequera: That is how it works in predictive. But in agile teams are assembled initially, and they are going
Orlando Sequera: to be self organized units
Orlando Sequera: that support
Orlando Sequera: project requirements for changes. The scope is going to be changes. So that's the difference between the 2 and how we form the teams.
Orlando Sequera: Now, we're going to watch a video on
Orlando Sequera: the Tuckman ladder of team development. This is this was developed by Bruce Tuckman
Orlando Sequera: back in the sixties in 1,965, and it shows the different stages of the information.
Orlando Sequera: And I just want to make sure. That. Okay. Here we go.
go through 5 stages
and
back in 1,965. A psychologist named Bruce Tukman observed that teams go through 5 stages
forming, storming, norming, performing, and a journey.
Tukman didn't just have a knack for rhyme, although that does make his model easier to remember
understanding and supporting the team through each phase can be vital to helping it become a high functioning team.
Initially, the team is introduced. Everyone is polite, pleasant, even eager. This is the forming stage when most team members are excited to start something new and get to know the others.
Then, of course, reality sets in during the storming phase. The weight of the task at hand sinks in the initial excitement, and the need to be polite. We're off soon enough. People start to notice and appreciate each other's strengths.
This is the norming stage. When the group starts to settle into a groove, everyone is contributing and working as a cohesive unit. Eventually the new team's members are confident and familiar enough with the project and their team that they can operate without supervision. This is the performing stage
when everyone on the team is on the same page, and driving full speed ahead toward the final goal.
In 1,977. Tukman added a fifth state, a journey sadly, not a perfect ride.
This phase is sometimes known as mourning, because the team members have grown close and feel a loss now that the experience is over.
the point of having a team is to work together.
understanding how teams develop and supporting that development is key to helping your team mature into the high performing team. It should be
Orlando Sequera: all right. So the talkman ladder. This is the first exposure. This is what happens. Any team goes through this
Orlando Sequera: forming.
Orlando Sequera: storming Norman
Orlando Sequera: performing.
Orlando Sequera: and a journey adjourn, because projects come to an end. That's why they added that last stage we're going to cover this again in more detail when we get to
Orlando Sequera: a lesson 4. But
Orlando Sequera: it was shown here because this happens when we initially form a team
Orlando Sequera: a few aspects to keep in mind. These are 2 important concepts.
Orlando Sequera: teams. Remember.
Orlando Sequera: I mentioned that briefly yesterday.
Orlando Sequera: A project team is cross function, meaning that you have people that are gonna be that have different skill set
Orlando Sequera: to perform the work that we need to complete in our project. That's this cope with the project. Okay
Orlando Sequera: and ideally it should be as self organized as possible.
Orlando Sequera: If we're, following an adaptive approach and agile approach. This is a no-brainer. Agile teams are self-organized, and self manage.
Orlando Sequera: But even in predictive.
Orlando Sequera: the trend nowadays is to let teams to be as self-organized as possible and we are
Orlando Sequera: transitioning nowadays to a different type of leadership
Orlando Sequera: which is a servant type of leadership, serve and leadership.
Orlando Sequera: We basically as project managers. We are stewards of the team. This is not command and control. We're not telling the team what to do. We are catering to the team. We're serving the team. We're making sure that they have the tools that they need the equipment that they need to do the work, and we are
Orlando Sequera: protecting them. We're shielding the team in.
Orlando Sequera: We're basically helping them. We're servants
Orlando Sequera: service leaders to that team. That's what that's a key concept.
Orlando Sequera: That is a must we? You need to know? Do you need to master that concept for the Pmp. Exam. By the way.
Orlando Sequera: I will even recommend you to look at every question
Orlando Sequera: that you answer in your Pmp. Exam. From the perspective of a servant leader. It's not command and control. We're not directing. We're not telling them what to do, and I know that for those of you that are coming from the military. This is a major cultural shock, but that is important to understand. We and and he goes back to something that we mentioned out. 30 chances are that we are not. We're not. We're not going to have the level of power, the level of a 30. We have to use the leadership.
Orlando Sequera: and this is a type of leadership that we have to use several leadership which i'm. Sure you you are familiar with for those of you that are coming from the military servant leaders.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so look at it. From that perspective we help the team we cater to the team. We make sure that they have everything that they need
Orlando Sequera: in order to do their work.
Orlando Sequera: All right
Orlando Sequera: Also
Orlando Sequera: A. When it comes to the
Orlando Sequera: A project manager role in adaptive teams.
Orlando Sequera: agile teams.
Orlando Sequera: It is, it seems to be a centralized. We usually have the role of a team lead.
Orlando Sequera: Right? It's. It's really close to in scrum to the scrum master.
Orlando Sequera: If it's centralized, they have a team lead or someone in a similar role, like a scrum master is the closest in scrum. They'll be the closest role to a the traditional project manager that we know. But it's about a we have one, the signature individual that is gonna practice all the leadership activities, but it could also be
Orlando Sequera: a done in a different way.
Orlando Sequera: It could be distributed in which
Orlando Sequera: they.
Orlando Sequera: the actual responsibilities as a facilitator communication, enabler collaboration. They shift from team, member to team member. That also happens. Okay. But I will venture to say that in most cases is centralized rather than distributed. But it also happens
Orlando Sequera: it is possible
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: a hybrid.
Orlando Sequera: the information is usually done
Orlando Sequera: following a centralized approach
Orlando Sequera: by a project manager team lead, and then a self-organized product team for portions of the work. So this is a combination. We have a centralized coordination for certain areas of the work.
Orlando Sequera: but we also have
Orlando Sequera: some areas like development, for example, that can be done in a more
Orlando Sequera: agile or adaptive way. But this centralized computation is more a aligned with predictive. So that is the combination we can.
Orlando Sequera: We can follow that that happens. That happens a lot
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to the composition of the team.
Orlando Sequera: These changes from project to project for you.
Orlando Sequera: Every single product is different. It changes from from product to project, and this is pretty much referring to how the team members are going to be assembled. Do we need full time team members that we need part time team members a.
Orlando Sequera: It changes based on organization and influences like resource availability. For example, that's why it's so important to understand your ecosystem, your environment, your organization. And here we can include some people with specialized knowledge or some people with
Orlando Sequera: a more of a generalized knowledge.
Orlando Sequera: The roles in the project team
Orlando Sequera: we have multiple roles. We have
Orlando Sequera: the project management staff.
Orlando Sequera: These are the people that are going to be performing activities like so
Orlando Sequera: pulling your schedulers, your butt budgeting activities. It can be you as the Pm. Or someone else. They're gonna be working with race manager and tasks and project communications. That is what we mean by project management
Orlando Sequera: a staff. In some cases this can be supported by the Pmo. If you have a Pmo. In place in your organization.
Orlando Sequera: you have the Predict staff members. These are your team members doing the work. They're the ones that are producing the project deliverables
Orlando Sequera: for the project. Then you also have
Orlando Sequera: experts that can provide you assistance whenever needed.
Orlando Sequera: depending on the areas
Orlando Sequera: that depending on the area of your project, for example, with the software for the kind of department we might need help from a. Cpa. A certified public account, and that is an expert in regular in
Orlando Sequera: the in surveillance. Oxley, for example. That's what we're using for accounting principles socks.
Orlando Sequera: Then we need an expert in socks
Orlando Sequera: that can help us to make sure that we are compliant with socks
Orlando Sequera: for our accounting software. So that's an example of a super next one, and we usually need them for specific points in time in our project, and we also have
Orlando Sequera: business
Orlando Sequera: that are going to be supporting that the partnership.
Orlando Sequera: One key aspect is that we need to be able to identify the resources that we need. Remember that it. When we talk about resources, it's not only a about
Orlando Sequera: people. We're also talking about equipment, materials and supplies. But we need to know how much.
Orlando Sequera: how much of it do we need, and also how many people do we need? Do you need to be able to answer a few questions If the team going to have enough of the relevant skill set to do the work and produce the design results
Orlando Sequera: we have to try.
Orlando Sequera: Second bullet point here is critical. We have to as much as possible. No, it's not always going to be possible. We have to try to avoid single points of failure. We one ideally to have people that can do more than one thing, though those receive the name of
Orlando Sequera: generalize specialists that you see in the fourth bullet point here, we want people that can do more than one thing ideally. Is it going to be always possible? No.
Orlando Sequera: But we should strive for that. One way of doing that is, through cross training, having cross-functional teams. Okay, so that's how we can avoid. And
Orlando Sequera: T-shaped people we mean that people that can stretch their skill set, and they can learn, for example, software coders that can also do testing.
Orlando Sequera: That's an example of T-shaped people. So that's how we can avoid those single points of failures. And Again, we need to also need a to quantify and understand how much resources, what are, how many the resources, the equipment and supplies that we need to complete our project.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, that's also extremely important for us to understand. It's not just about the people. It's also about the materials, equipment, and supplies. If we need a 3D printer, how many, if we need access to conference rooms, access to printers, a access to a specialized.
Orlando Sequera: a piece of equipment that we only have one in the organization or let alone. We don't even have one in the organization. We have to go outside and get it from a supplier. We need to identify those resource requirements.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: we also need
Orlando Sequera: and a little bit going.
Orlando Sequera: doing a deeper dive When it comes to T-shaped people
Orlando Sequera: we should instill that
Orlando Sequera: mentality with our team members. They should try to do more than just one thing. It's not just one specialist in just one single area. We should try to expand that knowledge.
Orlando Sequera: and that's what's gonna help us to be more successful. And to avoid those singles single points of failure. That is, we can achieve that for training cross training, and that's going to help them to even helps with motivation. People are always eager to learn a
Orlando Sequera: new functions in in a new new skill set. That's that's great that can help people to grow and develop. And one aspect that you also have to remember for both the Pmp. Exam. And project management is that we are in the business of developing people. We're in the basis of growing people.
Orlando Sequera: This can help individuals to add more value. A helps the organization. And
Orlando Sequera: would you avoid single points of failure?
Orlando Sequera: Any can in special, in situations in which resources are scars which is most organizations are going through that and that can help
Orlando Sequera: we tremendously, with
Orlando Sequera: the chances of being successful with your team.
Orlando Sequera: A few aspects that we also have to take into account. When we are forming our teams. We have
Orlando Sequera: diversity.
Orlando Sequera: Chances are that
Orlando Sequera: we're going to be working with a global team with a diverse team people from different cultures, and
Orlando Sequera: the goal should be to leverage that as a strength, notice a limitation, not as a constraint. Notice a weakness. We should leverage that we can have a more thorough and more enhanced
a
Orlando Sequera: approach. Looking at it from different angles, we gotta take that into account. So we have to leverage that that diversity a as as a strength, and it's going to help us to be a to be successful in the goal. Here is
Orlando Sequera: following those values that we
Orlando Sequera: briefly mentioned yesterday. Starting with respect, the goal should be to build trust within our team members. Okay, that's that's ideal. Is it? Easy? No. But we have to work. That's part of your job as a project manager as well to make sure that the teams can work and be able to build for us amongst themselves
Orlando Sequera: One
Orlando Sequera: This is another common aspect, this another tool that you're going to start seeing
Orlando Sequera: in.
Orlando Sequera: It is throughout the content it's about expert judgment. Expertise is this glorified common sense that we develop through experience.
Orlando Sequera: expert judgement, expertise. Whenever you see this in your Pmp. Exam expert judgment expertise.
Orlando Sequera: do not assume that you have to have that expertise, that expert judgment. Mainly. You might have some of it as the Pm. Because you might have worked in similar products in the past, but it mainly comes from your team members. They're the ones that are doing the work. They are the experts. They are
Orlando Sequera: the ones that have mainly the expert judgment comes from them because they are the ones that are doing the work. We are not doing the actual project work. The team members are
Orlando Sequera: okay. We might have some of the knowledge. But the expertise is gonna come from the subject matter. Experts and people that are doing the work. We might not have them internally, and if that's the case, we might use consultants, we might use
Orlando Sequera: historical data. We might leverage a
Orlando Sequera: external associations or professional association. We, if we Don't have that
Orlando Sequera: expert judgment, that expertise in-house we need to get it from somewhere. It could be from somewhere else in the organization, or it could be even the outside of the organization. We need to have that expertise. You're gonna see this expert judgment as a recurring
Orlando Sequera: theme
Orlando Sequera: throughout the content. But remember that it's not just from your from you as the project manager.
Orlando Sequera: Also.
Orlando Sequera: we should focus always on
Orlando Sequera: team strings.
Orlando Sequera: A. We should perform a a a slow analysis for that. Try to identify the so. The yes comes from strength.
Orlando Sequera: The W comes from witnesses, and then opportunities and threats
Orlando Sequera: that those are risks. By the way. We will cover that when we get to risk identification to understand, and we should always
Orlando Sequera: organize your teams around their strengths and be aware of their weaknesses. As well try to address them as they come.
Orlando Sequera: Another important aspect is
Orlando Sequera: team norms.
Orlando Sequera: These are the behaviors. These are the agreed standards of conduct that we are going to follow as a team.
Orlando Sequera: This is what's going to happen. What's going to help us to navigate that
Orlando Sequera: A project work the best way possible the rules of engagement basically and how we're gonna work as a project team
Orlando Sequera: they can. We're gonna have the guidance for meetings here. We're gonna meet every day at 9 am. For 50 min.
Orlando Sequera: If someone sends an email.
Orlando Sequera: we respect the reply within 30 min or less, someone since someone leaves a voicemail, we expect to reply within 30 min or less.
Orlando Sequera: This is the escalation path that we're going to use for conflict management.
Orlando Sequera: These are our share values as a team, and this is the decision making process that we are going to follow. These are the norms that we're going to use as a team that those are the respective behaviors. Any violations of these behaviors can
Orlando Sequera: result in sanctions for the team members. But
Orlando Sequera: we build this as a team. We build this team norms as a team, and this everybody chimes in, and this is what we're going to follow, and we almost.
Orlando Sequera: But he's
Orlando Sequera: your job to help the team to
Orlando Sequera: A to to address and overcome this situation, especially when it comes to conflict management. But these are the norms. These are rules of engagement that we have to follow to. We in order to work as a team.
Orlando Sequera: Bmi provides
Orlando Sequera: a code of ethics that is huge. That's a key aspect that we have to remember. Pmi provides a code of ethics that has
Orlando Sequera: the values. These are the values, responsibility, respect, parents, and honesty. And
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to the Pmi to the Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: Always
Orlando Sequera: keep
Orlando Sequera: ethics always do the right thing.
Orlando Sequera: Always do the right thing. Okay, so review it. It is available. You can go to pmi.org. And you can review in detail if you want. And it describes the
Orlando Sequera: perspective, ethical and professional behavior of a project manager.
Orlando Sequera: And if this is gonna permeate in everything that we do As a project manager. It's part of the best practices in grain, and the best practice that we follow as a project manager, the code of Ethics. Okay, really, really, really important.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: next, we have a document that we create as a team
Orlando Sequera: that has
Orlando Sequera: that we call the team charter that has the values, the behavior guidelines, those thing north that we worked on. They're gonna be put together in this document that we call the team charter.
Orlando Sequera: the guidance for communications, the decision making guidelines, conflict resolution measures. Basically the team norms are going to be put together in this document that we call team charter.
Orlando Sequera: This is
Orlando Sequera: important. This is going to keep everyone on the same page. It's going to drive those behaviors, and it's going to establish those crown rules that we have to follow
Orlando Sequera: Burk as a team.
Orlando Sequera: This is an example
Orlando Sequera: of a team charter for one of our projects.
Orlando Sequera: Then we have the project team name, for example, a a lot of information, but at the bottom these are the team guidelines. Working hours are from 8 am. To 5 Pm. For the office on site. Workings are posted on site, and they change daily.
Orlando Sequera: We need to use relevant messages in work. Chats be on time to meetings, ask for help when you need it, communicate honestly and openly. So this is an example of a team chartered. These. These are the ground rules that we have to follow as a team. Be polite, respect everyone's opinion.
Orlando Sequera: speak to people directly
Orlando Sequera: before
Orlando Sequera: airing grievances in public. So those are the ground rules for this project for shop industries, for the lifestyle center. This is just an example. These changes for project to project
Orlando Sequera: Another important topic is
Orlando Sequera: team communication.
Orlando Sequera: We have to decide
Orlando Sequera: which communication approach. Are we going to follow? But the again
Orlando Sequera: communication happens in multiple ways.
Orlando Sequera: It but we need to be able, if we to be able to remember? That is, there's verbal communication written communication, but it's also
Orlando Sequera: body language. It's behavioral communication. We've got to pay attention to those body language queues some. There's some notice boards that will be physical communication, and even virtual communication. It is important that we
Orlando Sequera: are specific when it comes to the communication expectations, as we saw in the previous example in the team charter
Orlando Sequera: to understand what is expected from our team members to be on time for meetings. A phone call has to be a voicemail replied, has to be answered, replied. Within 30 min or an hour. An email has to be reply within 30 min or an hour within working hours, of course.
Orlando Sequera: and this is not setting stone. This can change
Orlando Sequera: as the team sees fit
Orlando Sequera: to whatever works for them, and that's why we can work on lessons. Learned a. We can have a session and let us learn
Orlando Sequera: retrospective session with the team to try to come up with an improvement if our ground rules are not working.
Orlando Sequera: But we have to be able to determine that
Orlando Sequera: for the team.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: then.
Orlando Sequera: do we need to be in the same space
Orlando Sequera: at all time.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: Can we be collocated? Can we be virtual? It depends it. These changes from organization to organization in the last 3 years we have seen that it is possible to work remotely. Some organizations learn that the hard way some of them they already knew it.
Orlando Sequera: but and it's becoming more normal. In most workplaces.
Orlando Sequera: It has some positives, but it also has some challenges. Is building that frost building that that relationship is harder when you're working in a in a virtual setting.
Orlando Sequera: but in a co-located team. Everybody in the same physical space within 6 feet, or I want to say for those of you that use the metric system, as I think, is 1.8 meters
Orlando Sequera: 6 feet. If i'm not mistaken, the interaction is easier is better bonding.
Orlando Sequera: It's easier to build trust, and it's easier to it. It's it's conducive to collaboration in a more, a in an easier way, but it is still possible, following a virtual approach.
Orlando Sequera: But a
Orlando Sequera: what? We it it's just part of reality nowadays.
Orlando Sequera: Changes from organization to organization.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And i'm sure that some of you work under a virtual team approach, or some of you work allocated, and that's perfectly fine.
Orlando Sequera: These are some of the challenges that we have for virtual teams
Orlando Sequera: is heart
Orlando Sequera: to keep the individual
Orlando Sequera: to track the video performance, and people can feel isolated
Orlando Sequera: and remember, it's not about command and control. We are. It's about making sure that people are performing their best. It is also a problem, especially when you have
Orlando Sequera: diverse teams. It can be challenging different time zones a technological scale level might be different. That might be tougher, and also
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: building that trust
Orlando Sequera: with your team members can be a little bit more challenging. So the answer one of the recommendations for that will be to have at least a face to face a meeting. At at least one try to have it, if if at all possible. We'll try to figure out ways
Orlando Sequera: to build a that for us and build that
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: For to promote that bonding between team members. That is really important.
Orlando Sequera: And also
Orlando Sequera: when you're running virtual teams check in with people. This is for you as the Pm. Check in with them as much as possible. It requires more oversight, more engagement on your part and try to work on positive network building activities. That's also really important. It. It is possible, even in a virtual
Orlando Sequera: a way. But try to some. Some. Some organizations are creative with this, and they's not. They have meetings to talk about sports or something that they like. It's not just about. We're trying to build that trust as much as possible.
Orlando Sequera: E. When it comes to virtual communication technology. We have multiple tools that we can use a task force like Jira, for example.
Orlando Sequera: instant messaging calendars, document storage, video conferencing like zoom, for example. But one thing that I wanted to point out. They
Orlando Sequera: fact that we have. The technology does not replace the need for planning for the communication, or that some replace.
Orlando Sequera: They need to communicate
Orlando Sequera: what I'm trying to say. Not because we have Microsoft teams that doesn't mean that we have to that. Would
Orlando Sequera: we have Microsoft teams we don't have to. We don't have to have meetings every day. We don't have to check in with our people. No, we that is just the medium, the technology. We still have to plan for our
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: communications and make sure that we have our expectations. A
Orlando Sequera: clearly defined in the team charter
Orlando Sequera: a little bit more about addressing the virtual team needs. We have to facilitate their collaboration. We have to. It's more challenging. It requires more oversight for you. As a Pm. But it's about building that
Orlando Sequera: a collision
Orlando Sequera: circles that purpose a and
Orlando Sequera: prior to fine roles and expectations. That's where the racing matrix is gonna come handy. We haven't talked about racing matrix. But it is a another artifact that we can create is response is basically stands for responsible, accountable, consulted, and inform, and that's
Orlando Sequera: one artifact that is gonna help us to make sure that we're on the same page when it comes to the project team to understand who is responsible for a task? Who's accountable? Who needs to be consulted? Who needs to be informed that's how we can address that clarity on roles and expectations.
Orlando Sequera: more oversight for virtual teams still possible.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: We have covered
Orlando Sequera: how to empower team members and stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: It's about strength. Build your build your team, organize your team about around around your strings
Orlando Sequera: A and short, not a transfer for continuity. So we went over this responsibilities within the team and the expectations for working environment team, charter round rules, team norms. And also we went over on how to engage and support virtual teams.
Orlando Sequera: So we are ready. We're getting ready. We have
Orlando Sequera: 5 min until we go for a break, actually 4,
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: I'm gonna take the remaining 4 min to address any questions that
Orlando Sequera: are in the Q. And a.
Orlando Sequera: At the top.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: first one is our project. Managers tend to be responsible for hiring.
Orlando Sequera: Or is the program manager generally responsible for this. It depends on the organization which in some, if it's a projectized organization. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: that's why you have to understand the organizational structure in a functional organization. The answer will be No. In the project. T: the answer will be, yes.
Orlando Sequera: So it depends on the organization.
Orlando Sequera: Another question: how did you identify the number of team members. As we said before, if it's a predictive approach that you're following traditional, you need to understand this couple of the work and define the scope of the work.
Orlando Sequera: If it's agile, we to understand. At least
Orlando Sequera: you're gonna have an idea to you. Start
Orlando Sequera: to start with the with with your it's. It's gonna be done at the beginning, based on the initial understanding of the project.
Orlando Sequera: So it really depends on the approach. But for predictive, the difference is that you need to understand this couple of work.
Orlando Sequera: You need to. We do that in planning, and then you
Orlando Sequera: put together the team. It's a little bit different depends on the approach.
Okay?
Orlando Sequera: Oh.
Orlando Sequera: one of the Prep. Work questions, asks, what is the biggest adversity adversity to
Orlando Sequera: a diverse team, and the answer was cultural differences, I wholeheartedly agree.
Orlando Sequera: That is
Orlando Sequera: the differences. The differences that will be, I guess, is.
Orlando Sequera: I will have to read the question with a little bit more detail. But
Orlando Sequera: that is one of the biggest challenges, and adversity is a challenge.
Orlando Sequera: So but I will need more context about the the specific question.
Orlando Sequera: right?
Orlando Sequera: Another question
Orlando Sequera: in agile do we still create the for each other?
Orlando Sequera: That's not.
Orlando Sequera: Yes, we do. We can create a pro charter for adjo we haven't covered that yet. But yes, we still can create. We still need to create a magic for a charter. It's less information would. Yes, we should.
Orlando Sequera: It's another question: Where did you?
Orlando Sequera: Where did you turn? If you are the first Pm. At a company? I don't really understand the
Orlando Sequera: context of that question. Will you do you start with best practices. Just you gotta start somewhere with best practices that we are sharing. I would say
Orlando Sequera: another question.
Orlando Sequera: Tips to bring things together faster
Orlando Sequera: when your team changes with everybody based on resource availability. Well.
Orlando Sequera: I like. I used to take my teams out to lunch once a month. I used to bring them If we were at the office we have. We were working hybrid. I used to bring them donuts or power bars a every Friday, so that's what I used to.
Orlando Sequera: That's what I used to do.
Orlando Sequera: and figure it out. Figure it out. But there's old.
Orlando Sequera: Get some help from the Hr Department. They have ways to build
Orlando Sequera: to actually team building
Orlando Sequera: activities. They might help you with that. But there are multiple ways that you can do. That
Orlando Sequera: Can you give an example of T-shaped team. Ideal teams are usually T-shaped.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Can you give an example of a time do you experience noise on a project with stakeholders every single project as noise, and you have to work on a address in it. Every single project has it.
Orlando Sequera: Why would you desires to go to be neutral. At least we said at least to be neutral, so they are not against our project.
Orlando Sequera: I don't want it. I don't remember that's the bare minimum. We don't want someone. We don't want a resistant stakeholder.
Orlando Sequera: All right, so we are ready for
Orlando Sequera: our
Orlando Sequera: when our break
Orlando Sequera: We're going to be back in an hour. Please remember, do not log off. Please stay logged in.
Orlando Sequera: Enjoy.
Orlando Sequera: Your
Orlando Sequera: break will be back in an hour for those of you in the
Orlando Sequera: in the Eastern time. Some will be back at 2 30,
Orlando Sequera: but we'll be back in an hour. Okay, please do not log off. We're gonna be play. We're gonna be playing a videos. Let them run in the background with important information.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: So thank you very much, and we will be back in an hour
Orlando Sequera: to continue with the class
Orlando Sequera: Again, we're going to have some
Orlando Sequera: topping points in which we will be able to address your questions.
Orlando Sequera: Remember that content Questions. Go in the Q. A. All right.
Orlando Sequera: and we're going to continue with with our Pmp preparation class.
Orlando Sequera: Hopefully.
Orlando Sequera: you were able to
Orlando Sequera: to rest a little bit, and we're continue to finish strong alright, so we can
Orlando Sequera: cover the content that we have
Orlando Sequera: left.
Orlando Sequera: And we're going to start
Orlando Sequera: this portion of the content with
Orlando Sequera: building a shared understanding. So before we went and break, we were talking about forming the team.
Orlando Sequera: We we even watched the video on the Tuckman ladder with the 5 different stages of the information.
Orlando Sequera: and that happens in both
Orlando Sequera: predict, regardless of the approach, whether we're predictive or following a predictive approach or waterfall, or traditional. Or if we're following an agile approach or adaptive.
Orlando Sequera: we're gonna have to form a team
Orlando Sequera: right for our project.
Orlando Sequera: So once we have that in place.
Orlando Sequera: the next step, and we were also talking about identifying our our stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: a developing Australia to keep them engaged.
Orlando Sequera: Now.
Orlando Sequera: what we're gonna do is
Orlando Sequera: an important step in project management which is getting everyone on the same page.
Orlando Sequera: This is crucial. We have to be
Orlando Sequera: on the same.
Orlando Sequera: We have to be on the same page
Orlando Sequera: we have to be aligned, and that that's what we're trying to do with build a sharing understanding. This is a key aspect of any project, regardless of the approach we have to be
Orlando Sequera: working. We have to be on the same page in regards to
Orlando Sequera: it. They go also the project. What the stakeholders, what the customers are expecting. The team members have to be on the same page, and that's something that we have to to work with the team and with the stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: We also have to put the team in that position to understand the importance of the project. Why is the organization willing to invest money.
Orlando Sequera: time and resources on that particular project, just as we said yesterday, that's align with the strategic objectives. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: the goal here is to foster collaboration our project team members. They need to collaborate with other stakeholders. So that's what we're trying to set the foundation for. With this aspect of building a share. Understanding. This is crucial. This is a key aspect of any project.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: then.
Orlando Sequera: The goal here is
Orlando Sequera: that
Orlando Sequera: we have to look for consensus
Orlando Sequera: for the project among the team. Member and stakeholders get everyone on the same page. That's what we're trying to do here
Orlando Sequera: in.
Orlando Sequera: We have a few principles here. How can we do that right? You might be wondering great. Okay, you're talking about giving them on the same page
Orlando Sequera: we have to for their collaboration. So how do we do that
Orlando Sequera: the first this is where the this aspect of leadership comes into play we have to
Orlando Sequera: You were. Chances are that we're not going to have the level of a 30,
Orlando Sequera: so we have to use leadership. So we have to demonstrate we have to.
Orlando Sequera: They as
Orlando Sequera: say, here in the States. This is a idiomatic expression when I use it. Nonetheless it we have to walk the talk. We have to demonstrate those leadership behaviors. We have to follow those guidelines that we set for the team in the team. Charter follow those guidelines, follow that leadership.
Orlando Sequera: the Serbian leadership approach, and we have to.
Orlando Sequera: We have to basically
Orlando Sequera: be a role model for those leadership behaviors that we're expecting everyone else to to follow. If you make, for example.
Orlando Sequera: honored your commitments
Orlando Sequera: it as much as possible. If you promise something that you're gonna deliver, then do that and communicate. Be on time. You're asking everyone else to be on time for your meetings for your calls. Be on time.
Orlando Sequera: Listen to everyone else.
Orlando Sequera: Understand that there are different points of view, and some in some cases they're gonna be contradicting, and they're gonna be country. They're gonna be. They're gonna be the opposite to what even you think as a project manager, so understand and basically show
Orlando Sequera: be a role model for those leadership behaviors that you're expecting everyone else to follow it. It's kind of contagious. It's it's contagious.
Orlando Sequera: The second one is
Orlando Sequera: make sure that
Orlando Sequera: especially your team members understand that it is that we're we're working on this project to add value. We're developing this software for the canon department to add value to the organization to help them to reduce to increase the efficiency of their operations by 20% in the next fiscal year.
Orlando Sequera: Excuse me.
Orlando Sequera: that's why we're working on this project. We have to be diligent.
Orlando Sequera: We have to be respectful, and more importantly, as I mentioned before, we have to be, as toward of
Orlando Sequera: our project, where this towards off those resources that the organization is willing to spend on that project, we are this 2 words of that
Orlando Sequera: we have to be able to navigate complexity.
Orlando Sequera: It's going to happen. It's simply a fact of life.
Orlando Sequera: and especially it's going to happen.
Orlando Sequera: especially at the beginning, where you're trying to get to know the stakeholders, and you're trying to understand the scope of the work that you have to
Orlando Sequera: completing. Your project is going to happen. So navigate that it's about
Orlando Sequera: active listening. Relying on your team members. Remind your experts and keep
Orlando Sequera: keep it. Keep it keeping
Orlando Sequera: keeping a steady.
I can.
Orlando Sequera: keeping everything under control. Not really. Your emotions. Dictate your actions, keeping a keeping calm, basically and also
Orlando Sequera: being able to adapt.
Orlando Sequera: be able
Orlando Sequera: to be resilient.
Orlando Sequera: Not everything is gonna be always blue sky, clear skies and beautiful weather. No, you're gonna have some storms. Be resilient. Be ready for that. Okay. Be ready for that to put
Orlando Sequera: and that way to be basically inspired, that for us it is. It's contagious, As I mentioned before, so inspire that trust your team members and your stakeholders as well. Okay. But
Orlando Sequera: one outcome of this process is going to be
Orlando Sequera: to create a couple of artifacts
Orlando Sequera: that are going to help you
Orlando Sequera: in getting everyone on the same page.
Orlando Sequera: The first one is the project charter.
Orlando Sequera: and the second one is the vision statement. These are artifacts.
Orlando Sequera: specific documents on your project that are going to help you in getting everyone on the same page in reaching consensus about what the project is, you can always refer to them, and we're gonna talk about. We're gonna talk about them a little bit more
Orlando Sequera: Now.
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to building a share understanding.
Orlando Sequera: How do you go about building a share understanding. Again, it depends on the project context. I ha as I keep mentioning, and I have seen some of your questions
Orlando Sequera: in the Q. And a. Are very specific to our specific situations. But remember, there's not a silver bullet. Answer. Each project is different. Each organization is different. Even
Orlando Sequera: projects within the same organization are going to be different.
Orlando Sequera: So it's really hard to give a there, there's not really a silver bullet answer for every single situation that is gonna work in every single instance. That's not the case.
Orlando Sequera: You were. We're giving you tools. We're giving you best practices that you have to tailor. That's part of your job as a project manager. Do you have? Imagine these tools and techniques and and best practices as tools in your toolkit? You have to learn how to use
Orlando Sequera: it. The best tool for your situation. How do you do that? You start by understanding your environment, understanding your environment. That's where your those Eef and opa come into play
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to building a share understanding.
Orlando Sequera: you should start in sharing the agreement.
Orlando Sequera: That is
Orlando Sequera: the vision statement for your project and the project. Charter
Orlando Sequera: with your stakeholders and the team.
Orlando Sequera: then be willing to negotiate and reach an understanding on the agreements
Orlando Sequera: and work on the roles of responsibilities.
Orlando Sequera: the assignments, and that is specifically for the team and the project agreements. That's with the stakeholders. Okay, and that's the roles of responsibilities for that we create something that is called the racing matrix. But that's why some of you before I remember, since
Orlando Sequera: in the Q. And a. About the racing for stakeholders. No, that is for team members.
Orlando Sequera: we can we? We mainly mainly 14 members. The product agreements, yes, agreed to negotiate.
Orlando Sequera: and when it comes to product agreements with the stakeholders. Okay, and
Orlando Sequera: follow this agreement throughout the project.
Orlando Sequera: Follow these agreements for the project. And how do we do that for communication?
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: The project which you statement when a project begins.
Orlando Sequera: it is
Orlando Sequera: payroll. It is critical to have a clear vision of what you're trying to accomplish.
Orlando Sequera: It is clear it is very important.
Orlando Sequera: and that you that involves the creation of a vision statement.
Orlando Sequera: This should come from the sponsor
Orlando Sequera: or from the product owner. If you're following an agile, or
Orlando Sequera: if if the organization is following an adaptive, gradual approach
Orlando Sequera: or key, stakeholders, not from you as the Pm. They should come from the product, owner, sponsor, or key stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: that.
Orlando Sequera: and this should be continually reinforced to the team throughout the project. This is at a high level, a clear vision of the desire objectives and the alignment of your project with the strategic goals.
Orlando Sequera: and we should always go back
Orlando Sequera: to the provision statement.
Orlando Sequera: 2
Orlando Sequera: reinforce the message to our team members. This is where this is what we're trying to deliver to our customer. These are the goals that we have.
Orlando Sequera: That's contained in the project Visual statement.
Orlando Sequera: And then.
Orlando Sequera: as you are
Orlando Sequera: working on creating the project, Charter
Orlando Sequera: Project managers
Orlando Sequera: that
Orlando Sequera: need a better initial understanding of the project, they can benefit from existing agreements you might have.
Orlando Sequera: That's why we dig out and review any
Orlando Sequera: boundaries of negotiation for the Project agreement.
Orlando Sequera: Is there anything
Orlando Sequera: eligible for discussion or troubleshooting. And what are the desire objective for the products? So you need to understand this before you can work and deliver and and produce a the project Charter. And also how are you going to
Orlando Sequera: measure and assess organizational priorities and determine the ultimate objective for the project?
Orlando Sequera: This is where critical thinking. And by the way, that's a key aspect of the Pmp. Exam: is it's a 100% of our critical thinking.
Orlando Sequera: Google thinking Skills
Orlando Sequera: a are gonna help you in identifying how the project fits
Orlando Sequera: within the organizational landscape. Okay, that's why so important to start. We talked about it yesterday. The organization of culture, understanding your land
Orlando Sequera: conversation, understanding your ecosystem within the organization that is crucial, that a step
Orlando Sequera: number one. Okay, and then use that critical thinking
Orlando Sequera: and try to come up with an understanding and how your project fits within that organization and landscape. That is critical.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: how can we create that
Orlando Sequera: holistic understanding of the project
Orlando Sequera: work with your stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: get their input when it comes to their vision, and
Orlando Sequera: additional, input
Orlando Sequera: and of course include the sponsor to clarify the visual statement to them, as well to the older stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: and leverage any initial agreements
Orlando Sequera: that might have to do with your project that might be applicable to your project.
Orlando Sequera: It could be contracts with external parties, remains or contracts.
Orlando Sequera: It could be Mo use memorandum of understanding with other organizations.
Orlando Sequera: Amy.
Orlando Sequera: sla service, level agreements, for example, letters of agreements, verbal agreements.
Orlando Sequera: a communication between key stakeholders, statements of work, sow, and what are those?
Orlando Sequera: Those are examples of opa? That's why we also have to re. That's why we're vo pas right. So these are opa's.
Orlando Sequera: So review existing agreements. These are examples of opa's.
Orlando Sequera: Then we also need to refer to something that we mentioned yesterday about the justification of
Orlando Sequera: the project we also need to understand and review. This is something that we covered yesterday the business case. This is about the justification for the project Review that there's information that is going to help you
Orlando Sequera: A. To develop that that project, charter the visibility, study the benefits.
Orlando Sequera: They
Orlando Sequera: that's gonna help you to understand the level of authorization that is needed
Orlando Sequera: to continue working on project activities and also the business needs documentation
Orlando Sequera: that will help you to identify
Orlando Sequera: areas of the scope like high level deliverables.
Orlando Sequera: This is a prerequisite of an actual and formal business case, and it's gonna help you to describe requirements can help you to start working on understanding the scope of the work
Orlando Sequera: that you have to complete in your project. What needs to be done when it's to be created, when it is to be produced.
Orlando Sequera: and how has to perform.
Orlando Sequera: and then work with your
Orlando Sequera: work.
Orlando Sequera: You have to work with your stakeholders. You have to. It's about negotiation with them. Get them on the same page, and you also have to.
Orlando Sequera: On this. Get your input from your subject matter, experts from your team members that are working on the project so they can help with to understand that technical success criteria. And this is where you can check some Kpis
Orlando Sequera: for the organization, if they are applicable, any lessons, learned
Orlando Sequera: information and historical data that from previous projects that are similar in nature that might help you to understand that success criteria for your project.
Orlando Sequera: You review an important opa, which is a quality policy for your organization and for testing. If you have any testing for user acceptance, you it. What are the Uat requirements? If it's applicable to your project, this might not be applicable to your project.
Orlando Sequera: Then you also need to understand the reporting criteria. How often you have to report. Ask the deliverables are being produced in your project, and
Orlando Sequera: the acceptance criteria for those deliverables
Orlando Sequera: users can provide acceptance of those deliverable. So
Orlando Sequera: that's gonna happen throughout your the life cycle of your project
Orlando Sequera: A. In add of projects. We use both aspects. We use what is called
Orlando Sequera: an acceptance criteria that we also use in predictive.
Orlando Sequera: We use an acceptance criteria, but that's at the very specific requirement level
Orlando Sequera: in agile we use acceptance criteria, plus
Orlando Sequera: something that is called a definition of tone, which is another check. I want you to think of the acceptance criteria as a checklist. This is what we have to check in order to say that something has been successfully completed. That's what it is in essence.
Orlando Sequera: definition of tone is another checklist that we have to be able to check all the elements in that checklist. To say that something was indeed completed. The difference is that acceptance script here. This is for agile. The acceptance criteria is at the requirement level, very specific
Orlando Sequera: at the requirement level, and the definition of Don is at a higher level. Every single requirement has to meet the definition of tone.
Orlando Sequera: Actually, the acceptance criteria is one element. It's the first element of the definition of done in agile projects.
Orlando Sequera: So we and we have to negotiate. We have to work with our stakeholders, regardless of the approach. This is
Orlando Sequera: through negotiations. So we are all on the same page when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: right.
Orlando Sequera: Excuse me, project success criteria.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: We have
Orlando Sequera: many.
Orlando Sequera: This, as we said before, this happens at the beginning of the project.
Orlando Sequera: and this is where you have to use your
Orlando Sequera: soft skills, your interpersonal skills as a project manager through communication with your stakeholders and your team members. This is key getting everyone on the same page. This is crucial.
Orlando Sequera: This is crucial. This is where you have to use your
Orlando Sequera: active listening. This is where you have to use your negotiation. This is where you have to use multiple communication. It channels with your methods with your stakeholders, with your team members to get everyone on the same page. Agile has some specific.
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: tools and techniques that help with the getting it with getting everyone to understand the vision.
Orlando Sequera: They're very specific. We have a couple of exempt
Orlando Sequera: for agile, because the the difference with predictive.
Orlando Sequera: if the
Orlando Sequera: if we're following a predictive approach. That means that we're gonna be able to define the entire scope of the project. And by that I mean all the work that we have to
Orlando Sequera: produce for a project. Let's assume for a minute that we're trying to build
Orlando Sequera: a house, a one story house.
Orlando Sequera: a 4 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms, one story house.
Orlando Sequera: and in that, if if that's the case.
Orlando Sequera: I would say that a predictive approach is your best bet
Orlando Sequera: you're gonna be able to define the entire scope of the house, and then work with your team members to start to in those project activities to produce the one-story. House.
Orlando Sequera: But in some cases that's
Orlando Sequera: the the scope is gonna be complex
Orlando Sequera: and or the scope is going to be changing. And in that specific case
Orlando Sequera: we need to use an adaptive approach. It's gonna be your best bet because we're going to be changing. We're going to be making a lot of changes.
Orlando Sequera: but we still need to know where we're going. That's why the vision is so important. We still need to know where we're going. We want to build a new
Orlando Sequera: type of engine for rockets
Orlando Sequera: to eventually go to Mars or and and beyond
Orlando Sequera: right. We want to build a new technology
Orlando Sequera: for rocket engines, a. To go to Mars and beyond.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: we know where we're going. That's the vision right. But
Orlando Sequera: how do we get there? It's not really that clear? But we need to still have a vision that's where this product box exercise
Orlando Sequera: which is getting
Orlando Sequera: your stakeholders to start talking about what they expect to see in that product service of result
Orlando Sequera: getting them to talk, to start giving you functionality that's gonna be that's gonna be really helpful. That's a good way. It's what we call the per box exercise. Imagine, for example, that we're trying to come up with a new streaming service to compete with Netflix to use a simpler example, right? So, using the product box. It will be
Orlando Sequera: they. We can have the name of the service.
Orlando Sequera: and then we can start with some. We start asking our stakeholders their
Orlando Sequera: what is the desired function that they will like to see? And we start making some notes, and that's in essence how we can conduct a prototype exercise. But the goal here is to understand the vision of so much a details for what we are trying to accomplish, what we're trying to produce, and the Xp. Metaphor
Orlando Sequera: and the Xp. By the way, that comes from
Orlando Sequera: another flavor of agile Remember that I told you. Gesture is a flagey agile is like ice cream, agile has multiple flavors
Orlando Sequera: from it's one of them from it's like the chocolate of agile, but it's not the only flavor.
Orlando Sequera: Xp is another flavor of agile, and it stands for extreme programming.
Orlando Sequera: This technique is some metaphor which is a way
Orlando Sequera: to the veil of a mission.
Orlando Sequera: I've a vision. I'm: sorry, explain the complex idea in simple terms. So your team members and stakeholders can have
Orlando Sequera: a clear understanding where we're trying to go. An example will be. Let's assume that we're trying to
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: we're trying to build a mobile app that it's a music streaming mobile app
Orlando Sequera: to compete with Pandora, for example.
Orlando Sequera: and an Xp. Meta, for example, in that situation will be, we won this
Orlando Sequera: this application to read your mind and play the Muse, play the songs that are
Orlando Sequera: based on your current state.
Orlando Sequera: based on your current emotional state at that particular time. We would like to build an a mobile app that can breed your mind. That's as an example a of an Xp metaphor, of course, a little bit more than than that. But it's basically 2 ways that we have in agile, because we don't really know how to get there.
Orlando Sequera: We know what we're we're going. We should know where we're going. That's why we're we're trying to come up with a vision, but we don't really know how to get there. That's what we're going to be working on in our project.
Orlando Sequera: all right
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to the product. Charter. There's no single way
Orlando Sequera: to create a project, Charter. And regardless of the approach, whether you and that goes back to another question that I saw in the Q. A. Before we went in on break.
Orlando Sequera: Every project needs to have a
Orlando Sequera: an actual project, Charter, regardless of the approach. Whether it is an adjunct project or
Orlando Sequera: a predictive approach that we're following for project. We need to have a project charter the best analogy
Orlando Sequera: that I have been able to come up with for a project. Charter is
Orlando Sequera: that of a
Orlando Sequera: birth certificate.
Orlando Sequera: That's what the project charter in essence is the project. Charter is the birth certificate of your project
Orlando Sequera: at this point in time when the procedure is created. That's when your project officially exists.
Orlando Sequera: is going to
Orlando Sequera: you. Get the green light to start working on
Orlando Sequera: and in activities. It means the project manager. It authorizes the project. That's what it means to the project exists.
Orlando Sequera: and it gives you high level information about multiple areas of your project
Orlando Sequera: is the birth certificate of your project.
Orlando Sequera: It authorizes the project manager to start working on project activities. Starting with planning.
Orlando Sequera: It gives the authorization to the program manager to start applying resources to project, to project work.
Orlando Sequera: It defines the business need and the rationale of why the organization is undertaking
Orlando Sequera: the project
Orlando Sequera: states
Orlando Sequera: the business sleep
Orlando Sequera: that is approved at the Executive level and verifies alignment with those strategic goals
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: It gives everyone, including team members and stakeholders on the same page
Orlando Sequera: focusing on a clear project vision.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: that is important. We need to have a project Charter. What do we include in the project, Charter?
Orlando Sequera: It's going to change. There's not
Orlando Sequera: one
Orlando Sequera: single way to create a project. These changes from organization to organization.
Orlando Sequera: but this is
Orlando Sequera: these are the the fields are the most common in pro charters. They may in names the project sponsor, the project manager, key stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: It provides a project description with high level information about requirements
Orlando Sequera: for this couple of project, and also measurable objectives.
Orlando Sequera: It covers the business needs.
Orlando Sequera: It also has high level information about the schedule with milestones.
Orlando Sequera: By the way, a master is a significant event in a project.
Orlando Sequera: That's what it is. We'll cover that in detail later. When we get to schedule.
Orlando Sequera: it also provides you information about the assumptions for your project.
Orlando Sequera: Remember, we have, especially if we're following an and a predict
Orlando Sequera: what we have some assumptions.
Orlando Sequera: Basically Taking
Orlando Sequera: W. Taking a
Orlando Sequera: making assumption, an assumption is taking something to be true without having evidence. Okay, we can assume that we.
Orlando Sequera: a supplier. A is going
Orlando Sequera: the time, because in the past supplier a deliver on time is that is that a fact? No. But
Orlando Sequera: or based in that on. This was learned on previous experiences. So we're going to assume that they're going to deliver on time again. All right. So that's an example of an assumption in predictive. For imagine we have to make assumptions all the time as accurately as possible. By the way, we also gonna have some limitations on some boundaries.
Orlando Sequera: The product chart is gonna have. High level information about risks is also gonna have some high level information about the budget and information on the business case it's gonna have high level information about every single aspect of your project. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: every single. If this is the starting point that birth certificate. From this point on, I can start working on planning
Orlando Sequera: and then
Orlando Sequera: do a deeper dive in those different areas. But I need to start somewhere, and that somewhere. Is the project. Charter.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: this is an example of
Orlando Sequera: a project charter
Orlando Sequera: for the shop.
Orlando Sequera: The shop Industries
Orlando Sequera: Lifestyle Center project that we have that we have been mentioning before and
Orlando Sequera: have in names the project manager. The sponsor has some contact information.
Orlando Sequera: and then information about the scope, information about the schedule project overview with risk information, the business case, the goals and metrics, and the expected deliverable. So. But, as you can see, this is one page, and this is very common is just how
Orlando Sequera: high level information, just high level information that you have about your project. Okay, Nothing more than high level information. That's what it is
Orlando Sequera: You need to. This gives you the green light to start working on your project as a project manager
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: A. From this point on you can start
Orlando Sequera: working, starting with planning activities, so you can then get a better understanding of the different areas of your project.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: So let's
Orlando Sequera: go ahead, and i'm going to review the questions. Remember what we said before your
Orlando Sequera: content Questions.
Orlando Sequera: Go in the Q. And a. Section.
Orlando Sequera: and I am going to, and please feel
Orlando Sequera: Please vote on those questions.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: I'm going to start answering the questions. I have the most votes
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: Why is the product box exercise? Consider agile.
Orlando Sequera: It's not necessarily consider. Add.
Orlando Sequera: it's mainly used in agile because it helps. It's a simple exercise that helps
Orlando Sequera: with
Orlando Sequera: a your
Orlando Sequera: that helps with your
Orlando Sequera: developing the vision. But you can use it in an industry. It is used widely used in marketing, widely, using marketing, and, by the way, marketing is one of the actual
Orlando Sequera: industries that uses agile, the most
Orlando Sequera: so widely using that so it's not.
Orlando Sequera: You can use it in predictive, too, but it is widely used in in agile and in marketing absolutely. So
Orlando Sequera: that'll be the answer to that question.
Orlando Sequera: Will we see specific tools, techniques like Xp. Metaphor and pro by exercise for a job projects on the Pmp. Exam as
Orlando Sequera: options you might, you you might put again my main recommendation for that.
Orlando Sequera: The questions are scenario based. The questions are going to be the Pmp. Exam. Is is a smart.
Orlando Sequera: The Pmp. Exam. Is gonna try not. It's not
Orlando Sequera: trying to determine whether you know about the tools or not, or the definition of the tool that the Pmp. Exam. Is trying to determine. Do you know how to use these tools? When do you use these tools. That's what they're looking for, is it? Is a it's about critical thinking. So it's not about knowing the definitions it's about critical thinking.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: Let me
Orlando Sequera: continue
Orlando Sequera: with the questions
Orlando Sequera: in the park chatter.
Orlando Sequera: The product chatter has very similar concepts. As a base or
Orlando Sequera: P. O. R. D. We should be familiar to most military members who have done organizational stuff work. Thank you very much.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. You give an example program as well. We went over them. We went over a.
Orlando Sequera: You should work this. This is one of them. Then
Orlando Sequera: the project Charter, is one of them.
Orlando Sequera: Another question in the Q. And a.
Orlando Sequera: Can the sow or Pws be the charter. No, that's a set. Those are separate documents when you need those documents to create Those are inputs to the project Charter.
Orlando Sequera: Those are inputs that you will use
Orlando Sequera: for 2 in order to create a project. Charter.
Orlando Sequera: We'll budget and timeline of it runs covered later. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: do charters have to be signed absolutely.
Orlando Sequera: Yes, they have to be.
Orlando Sequera: They have to be approved. They have to be. You gotta get some sign off, and
Orlando Sequera: it changes from organization to organization. Some of them are more.
Orlando Sequera: Some of them have more controls in place. But then again, check with your Pmo. If you have one in place.
Orlando Sequera: but
Orlando Sequera: that's part of governance. That will be part of Governments
Orlando Sequera: project governments.
Orlando Sequera: Another question Who prepares the project. Charter.
Orlando Sequera: Great question.
Orlando Sequera: The Pm. I. The Pm.
Orlando Sequera: The Pinball Guide. The Pinball Guide says that this sponsor has.
Orlando Sequera: if their sponsor is accountable for, the creation, has to make sure that the pro charter is created.
Orlando Sequera: But the project manager can assist the sponsor in creating the project. Charter.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so it's a a join effort between the sponsor and
Orlando Sequera: and your
Orlando Sequera: and the project manager for the project.
Orlando Sequera: Great question.
Orlando Sequera: Who owns the product? Chatter? Well, you are this to of your project, your the project manager.
Orlando Sequera: the charter, have to be signed. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: Do we use for a chart for other projects? Yes, you. There is
Orlando Sequera: the type of agile project, Charter. We probably less information than this. But, yes.
Orlando Sequera: another question. If you experience delaying, getting your purch or approved, did you ask someone with more authority to join the project? No, you work with your sponsor, and make sure that these
Orlando Sequera: that that these gets approved.
Orlando Sequera: You were with your sponsor members. Sponsor is vested in making sure that this product is successful. So leverage your sponsor.
Okay?
Oh.
Orlando Sequera: to press the charter. As I mentioned before, it's a joint effort. The sponsor is accountable. Sponsor has to make sure that it gets done. But the Pm. Can work with the sponsoring, creating the pro charter.
Orlando Sequera: Another question: Did you keep okay in the pro chatter? Who will update the 10 to the tentative scheduled. You don't have to go back and update it. You based on the information that you have at this moment.
Orlando Sequera: That's the information that goes in there. But you will have throughout planning. You'll have to develop the actual schedule for your project. This is just a tentative
Orlando Sequera: scheduled high level schedule with some milestones
Orlando Sequera: which are
Orlando Sequera: significant events that occur in the project. But you have to work on developing the schedule. This is not the final schedule for your project. This is just high level
Orlando Sequera: information about the schedule. Everything in the Charter is high level. You need to drill down. You need to do a deeper dive in those different areas
Orlando Sequera: Do you keep track
Orlando Sequera: of?
Orlando Sequera: There's a question in the Q. A. Do you keep track
Orlando Sequera: Oh.
Orlando Sequera: all these documents? Yes, that's part of your job.
Orlando Sequera: Another question. That's an project team. Need the pro charter. Yes, we mentioned that before it, even in one of the slides. Every project needs a project. Charter, regardless of the approach. Who's responsible for it? Well, it could be. It's usually not the pro owner. The pro owner is responsible for the scope of the project.
Orlando Sequera: It's. Usually the team lead or scrum master
Orlando Sequera: nails.
Orlando Sequera: So initiating the pro charter is not the Pm's responsibility. This is, however.
Orlando Sequera: the parents responsibility to maintain
Orlando Sequera: good question, and
Orlando Sequera: this project, Charter, is probably one, if not the only artifact that we're going to
Orlando Sequera: to create in our project that doesn't have to be updated.
Orlando Sequera: This is
Orlando Sequera: like a birth certificate. Right? You don't. Go back in time and change your birth certificate.
Orlando Sequera: You were born at a certain point in time. There's some information about you at that particular point in time. That is the starting point of your
Orlando Sequera: legal life right?
Orlando Sequera: You don't go back and change it, or you shouldn't at least so same. It's a snapshot at that particular point in time. That is the same principle with the project, Charter.
Orlando Sequera: We don't have to go back and change it. By the way, don't fall for that rabbit hole we don't have to go back and update the project. Charter. That is our starting point we're going to.
Orlando Sequera: We go over the class, and
Orlando Sequera: when we start covering planning, we started with planning today. So we're gonna work
Orlando Sequera: on the different areas of our project. And then we're going to be able to produce the to define the scope to define the budget for a project. This is just a starting point. We to start somewhere, and this is what the project Charter, is that somewhere that starting point.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: what else? What else I else?
Orlando Sequera: Do you keep track
Orlando Sequera: of all your meetings and what I said you should
Orlando Sequera: keeping meeting minutes. You should keep track of everything. That is
that, he said. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: another question can share understanding, be sharing a vision mission statement.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: If for me i'm sorry if for mean
and
Orlando Sequera: a new vision Sorry keeps crawling. So my apologies informing a new vision of vision statement it should be for and through collaboration to get. It should be formed through collaboration to get initial by in and get everyone on the same page. That's
Orlando Sequera: that's a true statement
Orlando Sequera: and another question.
Orlando Sequera: So that's the correct sponsor, determined the scope. No, no, no, no, no, that's what you have to work with. You have to work in understanding that work with the team members work with your stakeholders, but this is just at a high level at a high level. You have to work in planning
Orlando Sequera: to define the scope of your project to understand that better
Orlando Sequera: will
Orlando Sequera: we be asked to very, very specific questions on on the exam, to determine best project approach.
Orlando Sequera: I will this, and I, you suggest the scenario is going to give you some hints
Orlando Sequera: on Whether it is
Orlando Sequera: a a predictive approach is a better, better. Your best PET, or vice versa. If it's an adaptive approach, you'll get some.
Orlando Sequera: You gotta pay attention, Read the questions thoroughly so, and so you can have an idea what type of approach is going to be your best bet.
Orlando Sequera: All right. So we're going to continue
Orlando Sequera: with
Orlando Sequera: the content.
Orlando Sequera: I think I have time for one more question before
Orlando Sequera: there's another question: Are these topics in chronological order for events occur in the project? That's a great question. That's a great question.
Orlando Sequera: I don't want you to.
Orlando Sequera: Many of these processes occur simultaneously. This is what happens at the start of a project, but stakeholder, identification and project charter creation. They happen simultaneously. They do not happen sequentially. They happen. They happen at the same time. When you start your project.
Orlando Sequera: So stakeholder, notification and development, development, the correct charter happen at the same time
Orlando Sequera: at the start of your project.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So
Orlando Sequera: I have time for one more.
Orlando Sequera: You have used the example of a house in develop
Orlando Sequera: developer, making the same house repeatedly as a predicted project. Well, where will the provision exist
Orlando Sequera: for this example? You can work with your stakeholders. How would you like to.
Orlando Sequera: You can ask your customers what type of house are you envisioning? I would like to have? That is
Orlando Sequera: that feels spacious with open areas. You can definitely apply it even in that situation. So
Orlando Sequera: try to get information from them to see what type of functionality they're looking for in the house, so it's perfectly possible to apply the per box to exercise, even in that context of field in the house.
Orlando Sequera: All right, let's continue with the content.
Orlando Sequera: Once we have
Orlando Sequera: everyone on the same page, and what we're trying
Orlando Sequera: and what we're trying to do with the project.
Orlando Sequera: Right, charter is in place. We're on the same page. We need to get started with our project, and that's what takes us to a kickoff meeting.
Orlando Sequera: We need to get everyone
Orlando Sequera: a ideally together, whether it is virtual, or in a conference room.
Orlando Sequera: And in this kickoff meeting we are going to
Orlando Sequera: be able to ensure alignment that we're all on the same page.
Orlando Sequera: It helps with the information.
Orlando Sequera: and it helps
Orlando Sequera: in a very important aspect which is aligning your team members
Orlando Sequera: and your stakeholders with the project vision, and gives them the opportunity to
Orlando Sequera: provide their input
Orlando Sequera: and make sure that we are.
Orlando Sequera: or to validate the fact that we are indeed on the same page that is crucial for your project.
Orlando Sequera: This is where
Orlando Sequera: the project
Orlando Sequera: as an as an individual initiative. It's going to be
Orlando Sequera: to to the organization rest of the organization. He helps in
Orlando Sequera: getting a common understanding on that high level vision.
Orlando Sequera: purpose, and value of the project.
Orlando Sequera: We are able to identify those who are going to be the sponsor the key stakeholders and the project manager, and make sure that
Orlando Sequera: the stakeholders know who they are.
Orlando Sequera: And it includes high-level items from the project Charter. We're gonna use the bridge out for this kick off meeting.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: internally we should
Orlando Sequera: review with the team the project charter.
Orlando Sequera: We should clarify the team member roles, and that's where we're going to create what is called a racy matrix.
Orlando Sequera: We have a list.
Orlando Sequera: a of the team members, and we're gonna define who needs to be who's gonna be responsible needs to complete the actual task? Who needs to be accountable, which is different from responsible accountable is the individual that has to make sure that the task
Orlando Sequera: gets done. Okay, not necessarily. The the responsible party has to do it, but the accountable party is the one that has to make sure that it gets done that. Ha! That is crucial, the Bracy matrix.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, then, this is where we're going to present some of the results of plan efforts. If we are following an adult approach, we are going to provide the initial version of the protocol, which is basically a running to do list of the functionality that has to be built in the project
Orlando Sequera: that's for adjunct projects
Orlando Sequera: A. Or if we're following a hybrid approach.
Orlando Sequera: this is where we present the product roadmap.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: So far we have enabled we. We started talking about how to lead a team with a clear vision and mission.
Orlando Sequera: We also went over the bounds of negotiation for agreement.
Orlando Sequera: assessing we were assessing the priorities and determining the ultimate objectives of the project.
Orlando Sequera: We were also
Orlando Sequera: talking about a
Orlando Sequera: the need for participating in negotiations and being able to come up with a negotiation strategy. And this is the link between what we cover and your exam Content outline. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: then, we have. We talked about building share understanding. This is crucial. We need to get everyone on the same page, and by that I mean the project team members
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: the stakeholders. They need to be on the same page. And this is where we also need to
Orlando Sequera: it support the outcome of this agreement.
Orlando Sequera: and we also talked about defining the team ground rules communicating this
Orlando Sequera: principles with the team and external stakeholders, and then they need of
Orlando Sequera: an environment that Fosters collaboration and
Orlando Sequera: a proper following of those ground rules
Orlando Sequera: that we created as a team.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, super important.
Orlando Sequera: All right. Now.
Orlando Sequera: i'm going to go back.
Orlando Sequera: And and, sir.
Orlando Sequera: a few.
Orlando Sequera: please vote on those questions.
Orlando Sequera: and i'm going to start answering the questions by
Orlando Sequera: that have the most votes
Orlando Sequera: in case of some critical information
Orlando Sequera: changing
Orlando Sequera: such as the project
Orlando Sequera: sponsor changing, will the pressure be updated?
Orlando Sequera: You, don't, necessarily have to go back and change it. You can a update that in, because you by. If when that happens you're already gonna be in planning.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So you don't need to go back and change it. That was the sponsor of that particular point in time that
Orlando Sequera: but what you have to update
Orlando Sequera: the and this is the right answer to that question. What you really have to update is not the project chatter? It will be your stakeholder register.
Orlando Sequera: So that is the question to that. That is the answer to that question. What you need to update in reality is the stakeholder register with a new sponsor, not the project. Charter
Orlando Sequera: per chatter was correct at that time
Orlando Sequera: snapshot of that time. What you have to update is your stakeholder register.
Orlando Sequera: If a project manager leaves right after Charter. But before the project
Orlando Sequera: actually begins. The the new primary need to review the pro chatter.
Orlando Sequera: of course.
Orlando Sequera: absolutely
Orlando Sequera: any new project. If you're assigned that you're assigned to review the you have to review the pro charter. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: given all this, there's another question Given
Orlando Sequera: all these requirements. Criteria for planning and starting projects. Is it common?
I'm: sorry
it's done.
Hmm.
Orlando Sequera: My apologies. The questions are okay. I found it Given all these requirements: criteria for planning and starting price to come up for a single Pm: be responsible for multiple projects. At the same time
Orlando Sequera: it happens, yeah. So welcome to project management.
Orlando Sequera: That's my best answer. Welcome to project management.
Orlando Sequera: So Yes, it can happen in some
Orlando Sequera: in in some cases.
Orlando Sequera: but you get better at it
Orlando Sequera: all right as a Pm. If commitments are needed in the charter, you'd have to go back and change it. It's created that particular time when the project starts you don't have to go back and change it.
Orlando Sequera: You have to change other artifacts like the stakeholder register like your race, Register not the project, Charter. You don't have to go back and change it.
Orlando Sequera: Another question at this point in Project Preparation Project Charter, You said
Orlando Sequera: that this was the start. This happens at the beginning of every project. Yes. Is this the only document that has been created
Orlando Sequera: is the risk register.
Orlando Sequera: stakeholder, register, and our previous mentioned document. Not you like. They are utilized formally, but they're They're determined. They do start working.
Orlando Sequera: What happens? The 2 processes
Orlando Sequera: key processes that happen in the start of any project
Orlando Sequera: that happens simultaneously.
Orlando Sequera: Development the product, charter and stakeholder identification. But Don't look at it sequentially, Don't. Look at it sequentially. This happens.
Orlando Sequera: is simultaneously the same time that you are this: the the the prior is being developed. You are working on identifying stakeholders as well.
Orlando Sequera: Not all of them are sequential.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: there's another question in the chat and the Q. A. I'm: Sorry not the chat. How did you deal with organizational norms?
I'm: Sorry. Keeps growing.
Orlando Sequera: Hmm. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: These 2 went up. So i'm going to start with these 2 questions.
Orlando Sequera: What material should be presented on kickoff, and what material should be sent before the meeting.
Orlando Sequera: The charter should be sent before the meeting.
Orlando Sequera: Let me go back to that slide.
Orlando Sequera: and the racing should be for the team internally.
Orlando Sequera: and the Charter so should be sent before the meeting before the kick off meeting. So give people a chance to review it and then provide their input. So
Orlando Sequera: the charter
Orlando Sequera: with stakeholders and the team, and then the racy with the team members.
Orlando Sequera: It's a racy shone during kickoff meeting.
Orlando Sequera: There's not a hard role to say No, but that's more for the team, mostly for the team.
Orlando Sequera: That's what's going to help you to avoid a lot of conflict.
Orlando Sequera: because many that's one of the main sources of conflict.
Orlando Sequera: we not.
Orlando Sequera: when you don't, have clarity about the roles of responsibilities. That's why that's important.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So we answered those 2.
Orlando Sequera: How do you deal with organizational norms and external stakeholders in the kickoff meeting? Well, by understanding those review and opa. Every organization is different. You need to know those organizational North and adjust to them. Get support from the Pmo. And if there's not a pmo in place. Talk to other project managers, but
Orlando Sequera: get some help If you're new to the organization, get some help.
Orlando Sequera: Can acceptance. Criterion definition of of Don't be applicable in predictive or waterfall
Orlando Sequera: acceptance. Criteria? Yes, definitely, should have done no
Orlando Sequera: another question at this point in preparation you said that it was the start. Yes, it's the only document that has been created.
Orlando Sequera: The rest register has some increase. Stakeholder register is in the process of being created because you are working simultaneously in developing the project charter, and also
Orlando Sequera: there a identifying your stakeholder choice in the process of being created.
Orlando Sequera: But all the documents that we use here that we
Orlando Sequera: create. The artifacts are formally used.
Orlando Sequera: but some of them are
Orlando Sequera: done later.
Orlando Sequera: Oh!
Orlando Sequera: Can accept the script in the future, I answered that one already
Orlando Sequera: confirming that both agile and pretty, have the same general charter enemies. They don't the the agile project Charter is a little bit less. It's. It's a little bit more lightweight, less elements compared to
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: to a project charter for a predictive
Orlando Sequera: approach.
Orlando Sequera: There's another question. Difference between project, mandate and for each other. I do not know what project mandate is, so I do not know.
Orlando Sequera: but I can tell you that that's not part of the terminology that you need to know for your Pmp. Exam.
So
Orlando Sequera: another question scope on the project. China has not been discussed with the team.
Orlando Sequera: Correct. That's why we only have. But we have a high-level idea of the scope. That's what goes in the project. Charter that's Why, we don't have to go back and change the procedure. We have to
Orlando Sequera: define this call for a project. Okay, that's gonna happen later. In planning. This is just the starting point.
Orlando Sequera: just a starting point. We we haven't been able to define this code.
Orlando Sequera: So that's a true thing that will happen later.
Orlando Sequera: Another question that's the pretty charter include the budget. It includes high level information about the budget. We think that this is gonna cost a 1 million dollars. We're going to need a 1 million dollars. But do, how do we have. It's just then high level assumption that we're making at that point based on previous projects.
Orlando Sequera: Possibly. But we need to work on planning
Orlando Sequera: in order to determine the budget
Orlando Sequera: for our project. So it's high level information about the budget only
Orlando Sequera: will all stakeholders should be part of the kickoff meeting.
Orlando Sequera: Ideally, you should get as many as possible, especially the key stakeholders that should be present.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: when you are assigned to a project that is already underway. But it's not going well. How would you approach this
Orlando Sequera: cedar
Orlando Sequera: That happens?
Orlando Sequera: What would you do? A midpoint Kick off and try to realize? Well, you have to understand.
Orlando Sequera: not really not necessarily. Not about a kickoff that already happened. Right? The project is already
Orlando Sequera: under way. So what you really have to do is try to understand what are your first?
Orlando Sequera: It
Orlando Sequera: tasks should be. Try to understand
Orlando Sequera: the province that you're facing? Is the project.
Orlando Sequera: Is it about cost overrun, or are you or the schedule. Are you having scheduled? Promise? So it's it's the kickoff is pretty much
Orlando Sequera: relevant, is you gotta get up to speed about the promise that you're facing, so you can come up with the with with a strategy to address those issues that the project is facing it's way beyond
Orlando Sequera: having. You don't need to have another kick off. You need to understand what the what are the problems that your project that your project is facing, that's
Orlando Sequera: It's it's already too late for a kickoff.
Orlando Sequera: Another question. When do you? Okay?
Orlando Sequera: I answer that
Orlando Sequera: e is the price chatter in addition to the provision.
Orlando Sequera: Yes, it
Orlando Sequera: It is like the written word version of the vision. It it in with a little bit more detail. Yes, you are correct. You are correct.
Orlando Sequera: Okay? A little bit more question another question. The project cost budget. Another financial could be confidential, and the client might not want it to be in the pressure. That's not the case. This is not the project.
Orlando Sequera: the final project budget you have to the You're going to develop that later in
Orlando Sequera: the actual, in your planning efforts. This is just the high level overview of
Orlando Sequera: the product of the project project. But it's not the final budget. So you're mixing a couple of things that are not related. This is a starting point. We think that this is going to cost a 1 million dollars. It's just high level information. What you have in the project, charter.
Orlando Sequera: So no need. That's later. When you develop the project button and we're going to talk about that. But not here.
Orlando Sequera: can accept the script and definition of on be applicable to waterfall, approach
Orlando Sequera: acceptance, criteria? Yes, because is specific to requirements, but not definition of done. That's only we use that only for agile
Orlando Sequera: and for the kickoff meeting
Orlando Sequera: can these over will be used as a general outline for the agenda. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: another question. So even if the press cup changes along the way. You do not change the pro charter. Yes, correct. You're absolutely correct. You don't have to go back and change it. That is the starting point what we mute at the start of the project. We don't need to go back and change it. You don't go back in time and change your
Orlando Sequera: birth certificate, at least not in this country. So same principle here, right.
Orlando Sequera: Are there any differences between
Orlando Sequera: oh, one
Orlando Sequera: one and versus a ventilment project? I do not know what you. I do not know what our name stands for. I need more context.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: There's another question in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, that is being oppressed
Orlando Sequera: communication work is from
Orlando Sequera: it. Works in Amy approach.
Orlando Sequera: All right, so I think we have
Orlando Sequera: being able to address most of the questions we're going to continue with the content.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: but before that we're going to take our break.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so we're ready for a first break. We're doing great. Thank you so much, everyone for following instructions.
Orlando Sequera: and we're gonna take a 10 min break and we will be back in
Orlando Sequera: 10 min.
Orlando Sequera: Enjoy your break, everyone.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to come up with that
Orlando Sequera: and my apologies. Thank you. So we can
Orlando Sequera: a measure the priorities and determine the ultimate objectives, participate in agreement negotiations, and come up with a strategy for those negotiations right with the team and also with the stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: build that share understanding, getting everyone on the same page. This is where we come up with a project vision and the project Charter.
Orlando Sequera: get every all.
Orlando Sequera: Get all the parties in a posture to reach consensus, and then they find the team ground rules communicate those principles with the team and the external stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: and then fostering environment that
Orlando Sequera: helps in those ground rules to come to fruition.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so that's
Orlando Sequera: kind of what we cover. We talked about the project. Charter.
Orlando Sequera: I'm gonna mention that one more time. This is probably one of the few artifacts that we create, if if not to say the only one that we don't have to go back and change once that that's one big takeaway that I want you to remember
Orlando Sequera: the project. Charter is created at the start of the project.
Orlando Sequera: It is the birth certificate of your project. It has high level information, but all the different areas of the program about the budget. But it's just high level information with what we know
Orlando Sequera: at that moment
Orlando Sequera: has high level information about the schedule, mostly about milestones. A milestone is a significant event in your project.
Orlando Sequera: so you can have a a milestone summary in the for the charter.
Orlando Sequera: It has high level information about the scope of the project. High level information about the stakeholders high level information about risk
Orlando Sequera: so multiple different areas of our projects, but it's just high level information 50 50,000 feet view
Orlando Sequera: of those different areas of our project, but
Orlando Sequera: it's just a green light that gives us the authority as a project manager to start working on
Orlando Sequera: planning activities. And then we're going to do a deeper dive. Then we're going to work with our team members, and they find the scope of the project. Understand the requirements and define the scope of our project. And we're following a predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: We're gonna start working on the budget. We're gonna start working on the schedule. We have to
Orlando Sequera: it. We we have to follow those planning processes in order to really develop the budget of our project the schedule of our project, and have a better understanding of what we're trying to do. Which is this cope of our project. We have to work on risk. We have to work on communication. We have to a work with
Orlando Sequera: our stakeholders, which is something that also happens at the very beginning. But that's what happens At the beginning. We start
Orlando Sequera: working, developing the product charter, helping our our sponsors sponsor to the veil of the pro charter in.
Orlando Sequera: We start working in identifying our stakeholders. So sort of 2 key things that happen at the very beginning of any project. Okay. But then we have to expand and really get more detail and granular in all those different areas that I just mentioned. You Don't, have to go back to change the the project Charter.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, and for those of you that had those questions you don't need to go back and change. Oh, I was assigned to a project in the middle middle of execution. Do I have to go back and have a kickoff meeting and
Orlando Sequera: and change it for each other? No, you are
Orlando Sequera: The most important task at that moment is to understand what are the challenges that your project is facing, and get up to speed about that about the scope. Who the stakeholders are, etc., as quickly as possible, to start coming up with a with a game plan, with a strategy to address those challenges that so do you have to do. You need to go back and do
Orlando Sequera: change it for a charter that
Orlando Sequera: that that is the past. That was va relevant information in the past. What about my sponsor change? Do I have to go back and change it to the church? No, you don't. You have to change your stakeholder register, that is, and a a living document, a document that is always changing. That's what you have to change. Not the project, Charter. That was true to that moment.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So you don't have to go back in time to change the birth to the birth certificate of your project. Please remember that for
Orlando Sequera: for the exempt
Orlando Sequera: alright
we
Orlando Sequera: now we're going to talk about the project approach.
Orlando Sequera: That's our next topic.
Orlando Sequera: And but before before we do that, it it is important to understand
Orlando Sequera: and how and why approaches are different.
Orlando Sequera: While in the predictive project life site. Well, the predictive for a life cycle has been effective
Orlando Sequera: in supporting project management
Orlando Sequera: for many, many years over 50 years, and this was
Orlando Sequera: this was the common norm for organizations. For more than 50 years they were following a predictive approach, and that was working project. Management is
Orlando Sequera: rapidly changing.
Orlando Sequera: A
Orlando Sequera: organizations
Orlando Sequera: requirements are changing and evolving, and
Orlando Sequera: this
Orlando Sequera: process based orientation of the of the predictive approach is very prescriptive.
Orlando Sequera: and by that I mean
Orlando Sequera: they their their prescription. They tell you step by step, what you need to do. That is one of the
Orlando Sequera: aspects. I'm not gonna say limitations because it's not really a limitations. That one is the one of the characteristics of the predictive life cycle approach. It's very prescriptive, telling you
Orlando Sequera: step by step, what to do. Think of it as
Orlando Sequera: as a recipe whenever you're trying to cook a meal. What do you do? Probably most of you are like me, you you're trying to cook Lasagna for the first time you go and Google a recipe for Lasagna, and then you get a your recipe gives you, step by step.
Orlando Sequera: all the different
Orlando Sequera: it gives you, step by step the activities that you have to follow right in order to
Orlando Sequera: ideally be able to cook a nice lasagna. So
Orlando Sequera: that is the prescriptive that is being prescriptive.
Orlando Sequera: That is, the challenge with current environments in which change is a constant.
Orlando Sequera: The environments are becoming more and more complex.
Orlando Sequera: The organizations are becoming more and more complex, and a prescriptive approach is not always going to cut it.
Orlando Sequera: It's not always going to
Orlando Sequera: to be the best approach.
Orlando Sequera: say i'm not saying that it's no longer the case in some industries, in some situations. That's what's going to be the most effective way of doing things in construction. If we go back and we're building the the house.
Orlando Sequera: you can define the entire scope. You can understand your You can define your scope for your house
Orlando Sequera: and work on that, and create your plans, and then track your performance against your plans and make adjustments as needed. And that's gonna work really? Well, it works really well in construction. Okay, in that aspect of the construction. Industry works really well.
Orlando Sequera: but in some other industries not so much because, as we see here, the level of complexity is changing.
Orlando Sequera: There's constantly global change. And that
Orlando Sequera: that was basically the ask for a different approach. That was a little bit less rigid and more flexible, that allowed a organizations to conduct the projects in a different way to account for that complexity that actually translates to changes.
Orlando Sequera: That's where the adaptive agent approach came up. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: that's that's why that's what makes the big difference between a predictive approach and an agile approach
Orlando Sequera: predictive. It's very prescriptive. They give you a list of steps that you have to follow, and that's what you have to do, whatever that you have more flexibility. There's not one single way of doing it right. It's just a framework. They give you tools.
Orlando Sequera: and they give you a framework that is flexible enough that you can implement and tailor to your specific situation.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: that's a nice set way to our
Orlando Sequera: next topic. So
Orlando Sequera: Taylor, product manager and approaches are gonna help us to support dynamic work environments and that dynamic working virus. That means that they're changing dynamic. They're constantly changing.
Orlando Sequera: We need to have an approach that is going to help us to
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: discover and determine value, deliver requirements as early as possible.
Orlando Sequera: and also
Orlando Sequera: we need an approach
Orlando Sequera: that helps us to put stakeholders on the team in close collaboration
Orlando Sequera: that happens in agile. That happens in agile.
Orlando Sequera: What are some of the advantages?
Orlando Sequera: It gives us? A better.
Orlando Sequera: better telemetry when it comes to feature or capability, assessment, and through continuous improvement and quality, and it also helps with
Orlando Sequera: organizational tolerance for changes.
Yeah.
Orlando Sequera: And remember, if several leaders they're going to influence projects and encourage the organization to think differently, because it's also about the mindset. When it comes to agile, it's not
Orlando Sequera: doing agile is about being agile, and that involves
Orlando Sequera: changing the mindset. So servant leaders are going to influence
Orlando Sequera: projects, and they're going to encourage your organization
Orlando Sequera: to think different and adopt the new agile mindset.
Orlando Sequera: All right, so that
Orlando Sequera: that those are some characteristics of that
Orlando Sequera: adaptive approach.
Orlando Sequera: And here we have
Orlando Sequera: the different approaches. Again.
Orlando Sequera: Experience.
Orlando Sequera: managers, or project professionals are going to choose the best development
Orlando Sequera: for their projects.
Orlando Sequera: It depends on the resources that they have. The understanding of the projects of the project scope
Orlando Sequera: the type of scope that we're working with
Orlando Sequera: the stakeholders, the industry and many other factors. Right? So you have the
Orlando Sequera: ideally you should have the freedom. You should have the flexibility to
Orlando Sequera: choose the best approach for your project. Are we going to go with an agile approach? Are we going to go with a predictive approach, or are we going to go with a hybrid with a combination of the 2 with a hybrid approach.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: let's start talking about the predictive approach. Predictive equals
Orlando Sequera: traditional equals waterfall.
Orlando Sequera: any other 3.
Orlando Sequera: That's it's the same right. It's the same
Orlando Sequera: or plan driven. That's another
Orlando Sequera: way to call that the predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: It is a highly reliable approach to project manager to project management in which the project needs the requirements, and constraints and constraints are understood. At the beginning of the project. We define the scope. We define the budget for a project at the beginning in planning.
Orlando Sequera: and then we start
Orlando Sequera: execution. We start working on a project, and what we do is compare our performance to the plans
Orlando Sequera: in a predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: The plans
Orlando Sequera: are the ones that drive the project forward.
Orlando Sequera: We measure the performance comparing what actually happens in the project. That's what we call actuals. And when we cover and value manager, and it's gonna make more sense.
Orlando Sequera: But those are actual. What actually happens in the project compared to what we say
Orlando Sequera: that we were going to be do. That's what that's Those are the plans
Orlando Sequera: all right, but the plans drive the project forward. That's what we call it. Plan driven
Orlando Sequera: A. The more well planned our project is, the more predictive and control the project is
Orlando Sequera: change.
Orlando Sequera: You might be wondering is change possible in a predictive project. Yes, it is, but it has to be done in a control way. We use
Orlando Sequera: change control management for predictive
approaches.
Orlando Sequera: and this starts with a change control board, which is an entity that is formed by experts and upper management. They are going to be making decisions.
Orlando Sequera: evaluating those changes, and they're gonna about. What are they going to evaluate any proposed change
Orlando Sequera: that is going to start with the creation of something that we call a change Request. This change Request gets routed to the Change Control Board.
Orlando Sequera: and this change control port. So I mentioned before it's a.
Orlando Sequera: It's an entity that is formed by
Orlando Sequera: subject matter. Experts in upper management.
Orlando Sequera: and what they're going to evaluate is the impact of those changes to the project. But the impact on what? The impact on the schedule, the impact on the scope and the impact on the budget, and they're going to make a determination if they approve of change, those change requests.
Orlando Sequera: That means that the changes have to be incorporated, and we have to a. If we are adding scope, we have to
Orlando Sequera: at the scope as needed in
Orlando Sequera: really re- baseline our
Orlando Sequera: schedule and re based on our budget as needed that's how we incorporate the change
Orlando Sequera: A to our project that's how we do it. In
Orlando Sequera: in a predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: The risks are also. We work
Orlando Sequera: thoroughly in identifying risks, in having a solid and
Orlando Sequera: a solid risk register with those risks analyzed with responses identify for them, and risk owners identify for those risks. So that's how we do things in a in following a predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: and when it comes to certainty about requirements that has to do with scope.
Orlando Sequera: we define the scope at the beginning. Okay, the scope is fixed. It's only going to change through a change control process.
Orlando Sequera: scope the budget.
Orlando Sequera: and they and the schedule of a project. Actually.
Orlando Sequera: so we have a high certainty because we define the scope of for for a project.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: if we're following an adaptive approach, which is better for situations in which we're dealing with high complexity.
Orlando Sequera: Again, we are developing a new technology for a rocket engines to to go to Mars, and if and beyond
Orlando Sequera: something that hasn't been done before that, it's very complex.
Orlando Sequera: We know where we want to go. We want to develop that new technology. How do we do it?
Orlando Sequera: That's the part that we don't know we know where we're going. The end goal, but we don't know how to do it. That means change
Orlando Sequera: or another example. It happens a lot with the development of mobile apps. For example, we're trying to come up with a new
Orlando Sequera: streaming service to compete with Netflix.
Orlando Sequera: for example.
Orlando Sequera: and we know where we're going. But how do we do it? We we have to take into account changing customer preferences. So we start by evaluating customer preference out there that are changing all the time. So that's a lot of change.
Orlando Sequera: So if you're working with the scope, that is the first aspect that you have to look at scope of your project. If the scope is right off the bat, you know that the scope is going to be changing a lot.
Orlando Sequera: That's key. That's a key word. That's a hint for an adaptive, a approach. Why is that? Because an adaptive approach or a module approach is going to help? Is change driven changes
Orlando Sequera: our
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: the the driving force in
Orlando Sequera: changes, the driving force in an adaptive approach. The goal is to add value to the customer. Change is allowed at any time at any time. The goal that we have we agile with agile is to
Orlando Sequera: add as much value as possible to our, to our stakeholders, to our, to our customers. Basically and the way we do it is in iterations.
Orlando Sequera: We do. We develop functionality, one piece at a time.
Orlando Sequera: multiple iterations over time when we build
Orlando Sequera: pieces of functionality.
Orlando Sequera: One iteration at a time. That's what we mean in
Orlando Sequera: an incremental development. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And we use a time box cadence. That's what we call iteration
Orlando Sequera: or spring in agile in in scrum
Orlando Sequera: or continuous flow.
Orlando Sequera: That's another a that that's another way of doing it.
Orlando Sequera: And it really, when it comes to the scope is the same. The level of sensitive of the requirements is low. It's not clear, so it needs further discovery, and it's going to be changing right. It's going to be changed. The scope is not fixed as it is.
Orlando Sequera: If we are following a predictive approach, so if that's it the situation that the scope is not well understood. It's unclear, that those are the the hints that you have to follow that will help with the following an adaptive approach is going to be better in this situation
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to change on risk.
Orlando Sequera: This is building the assumption of a high degree of change, you know, coming in, that there's going to be a lot of changes, and you also have a high torrent of
if
Orlando Sequera: some some protection in place for race management. But then you're gonna have situations in which
Orlando Sequera: it's better to use a combination of the 2,
Orlando Sequera: I can tell you.
Orlando Sequera: One example that comes to mind is the actual Artemis program.
Orlando Sequera: In the out of this program we follow a Taylor
Orlando Sequera: approach was a combination of agile and predictive
Orlando Sequera: some aspects, for example, he the contract with other, with some contractors
Orlando Sequera: that was used. We used that a predictive approach, because
Orlando Sequera: the scope of the contract was well understood, and for that procurement I should say procurement aspect of the Artemis program. We use an actual, a predictive approach for that. But, on the other hand, for the development of software a.
Orlando Sequera: I have the the chance to work on developing the software. If for payload processing and also
Orlando Sequera: the ground, a control system application at Kennedy Space Center, and for the development piece we use the agile approach we were using. We are developing software using iterations, and we were using scrum. So we called in sprint, and
Orlando Sequera: they they functionally was developed
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: in iterations incrementally based on what was the
Orlando Sequera: the most important functionality first, and we were delivering that functionally, incrementally, that is, within the same program.
Orlando Sequera: So that's an example of
hybrid.
Orlando Sequera: a approach, and it's perfectly fine multiple organizations to that All the time I will venture to say that
Orlando Sequera: many organizations, most organizations, use some sort of a hybrid approach rather than just pure, predictive and pure, a adaptive or agile. There's some degree of tailoring at some point in time. But.
Orlando Sequera: as I mentioned before, the discussion is, or the conversation, I should say, is not agile against a predictive. It's not agile versus predictive, is agile or predictive, or hybrid.
Orlando Sequera: These are the options that you have. You can pick and choose in what works for you. It's gonna be your best.
Orlando Sequera: What do you have to tailor to your specific situation? Understanding what
Orlando Sequera: the number? One aspect is the type of scope that you're gonna be working with your project.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: Would like to review. Please vote on the questions so we can
question in the chat. How does one know when
Orlando Sequera: when a project will end when doing agile? Usually you have constraints, you have a ceiling for the duration and for the budget?
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: that is usually the case. You have a set duration. The duration is fixed. You have a year or 6 months, and then a budget, too.
Orlando Sequera: So that that is fixed. But the scope is what's changing.
Orlando Sequera: That's usually how it gets done. But you do have
Orlando Sequera: a fixed. In many cases you have a a sailing for your budget and a sailing for your schedule.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
There's a
Orlando Sequera: we'll another question in the chat. Will not a hybrid up? I'm. I'm sorry not in the chat in the Q. A. Keep saying, chat, My apologies.
Orlando Sequera: Will not a hybrid approach usually be the best approach? Well, not necessarily. It depends on the situation.
Orlando Sequera: In some cases the scope is well understood, well defined. Your team is very familiar with that type of work. That that is, I would say
Orlando Sequera: predictive is the best approach, or in some cases it the scope is very complex, or it's going to be changing a lot that's ha! Ha! That is going to be your best.
Orlando Sequera: That so it really depends on the situation.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Another question.
Orlando Sequera: can you?
Orlando Sequera: That's the sponsor has an influence on the approaches to choose from. They can provide their opinion at all times. But this is mostly from the people doing the work. Your subject matter experts, your team. They can provide input absolutely. But this about this is for the people that are doing the work.
Orlando Sequera: and we have to.
Orlando Sequera: We shouldn't. Let a sponsor tell us how to do our work.
Orlando Sequera: That's not a good idea.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, it's about the so do matter experts, the people that are doing the work.
Orlando Sequera: If the project. Finally, the chartered Nope. You define that later.
Orlando Sequera: Another question.
Orlando Sequera: Can you please differentiate between the terms agile? Okay, adjun and scrum scrum is one form of agile.
Orlando Sequera: It's the most popular, and, as I mentioned before, think of agile like ice cream. Right!
Orlando Sequera: You don't have one flavor
Orlando Sequera: of ice cream you have. Do you have more than just chocolate, right and vanilla. You have multiple flavors. Same thing happens with agile.
Orlando Sequera: You have multiple flavors of agile. You have scrum is the most popular one.
Orlando Sequera: A. Perhaps
Orlando Sequera: because it's easy to implement You can do it at the team level, and is one of the the first
Orlando Sequera: flavors of agile. There's a lot of
Orlando Sequera: a th. There is a lot of experience associated with Crumb, but it's
Orlando Sequera: one flavor of agile X string stream programming Xps and other flavor. You have multiple flavors. You have discipline, agile, multiple flavors. Okay, so that's the best analogy.
Orlando Sequera: Ice cream
Orlando Sequera: is the chocolate or agile.
Hmm.
Orlando Sequera: We're all the key decision makers in the Pm. Development approach mainly Just so, you matter experts. Your team members should be, and the project manager.
Orlando Sequera: You shouldn't be told by the sponsors or stakeholders how to do the word they should come from your, from the people doing the work.
Orlando Sequera: Could you please elaborate on risk, manager and predictive versus adaptive. I will when we get to risk management. Not now. Risk is a separate area.
Orlando Sequera: We use another. Come a question in the chat. We use a team contacts, races, sheet instead of project register
Orlando Sequera: on the test exam will be run to say, update sponsor on the racing teams contact. She? Yes, that that please follow
Orlando Sequera: the terminology.
Orlando Sequera: even though that's perfectly fine. You can do it. Organizations do it differently, but
Orlando Sequera: for the exam. And thank you for that question, because it allows me to explain one very important aspect of the Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: Answer, based on the Pmp. Terminology that we are using. Assume that you have to create all these
Orlando Sequera: for your projects. When you're answering the Pmp questions, and for the Pmp. Exam, you have to create a separate stakeholder register and a separate racy matrix. Okay, even though in your organization you it sounds like you combine that. So for 4 December 2 separate things. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Answer: based on Pmi terminology.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: you're gonna get. Do you? Have you have to follow that? That's part of the Pmi mindset Answer. Based on the Pmi guidelines. These are the the best practices.
Orlando Sequera: So thank you for that question.
Orlando Sequera: Share product, example of hybrid project approach. I just did with the Artemis program. So that's done
Orlando Sequera: in agile. How do we handle? Change? Request you don't create change, request in agile? No, that what you do is you prioritize your product backlog with your product owner. You, Don't, have change, request in Agile.
Orlando Sequera: That's the sponsor. Have an
Orlando Sequera: influence on the approaches to choose from. They can provide. Input but it should be mainly the people doing the work
Orlando Sequera: they shouldn't tell you how to do your work.
Orlando Sequera: Right?
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: Let's continue
Orlando Sequera: an important aspect that many people get confused a couple of things a. It's important to understand the difference between the
Orlando Sequera: project, life, cycle and the product
Orlando Sequera: management, life, cycle.
Orlando Sequera: product, management. By the way, product
Orlando Sequera: product management is not in the scope of the exam.
Orlando Sequera: The exam is about project management, however.
Orlando Sequera: Product owners are going to appear in some exam scenario questions.
Orlando Sequera: and the role must be understood. The product owner.
Orlando Sequera: and mainly mainly this is in agile. The product owner is
Orlando Sequera: the liation between
Orlando Sequera: they
Orlando Sequera: business and
Orlando Sequera: the project team
Orlando Sequera: Exaliation between the business and the project team is an individual in charge of the scope
Orlando Sequera: of the project.
Orlando Sequera: So that's what the product owner is.
Orlando Sequera: They are responsible, as we see here, for maximum maximizing the value of the product, and they are accountable for the end product. They are responsible for maximizing the value because they are in charge of
Orlando Sequera: prioritizing the to do list that we have for our project.
Orlando Sequera: and by to do list I mean the product backlog. It's a running list of features that need to be developed.
Orlando Sequera: and the one in charge of that is the product owner. They maximize the value by may, by prioritizing that list of features that needs to be developed. Okay. So, product owner, we have to get familiar with. But product management is not in the scope
Orlando Sequera: or the Pmp exempt
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: product management is basically a key immigration point.
Orlando Sequera: The product is going to be part of project requirements, right?
Orlando Sequera: A, and that has to do with the scope of the project
Orlando Sequera: for management product management
Orlando Sequera: is
Orlando Sequera: going to involve the integration of people, data processes and business systems to be able to create and maintain
Orlando Sequera: product service
Orlando Sequera: throughout its life cycle.
Orlando Sequera: It's a series of faces product, life, cycle. It's a series of faces
Orlando Sequera: that represents the evolution of a product from the introduction, as we see here
Orlando Sequera: all the way through retirement or decline.
Orlando Sequera: Okay
Orlando Sequera: and product management, product management
Orlando Sequera: and any shape programs or projects at any point.
Orlando Sequera: That's why you see, Project 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 here
Orlando Sequera: throughout the entire life cycle. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So it's an integration point.
Orlando Sequera: But for the exam, what's really in scope is project
Orlando Sequera: management.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: project management.
Orlando Sequera: right?
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: a little bit more
Orlando Sequera: about
Orlando Sequera: the life cycle.
Orlando Sequera: the life cycle and development approach. So we start somewhere. The project life cycle is the progression
Orlando Sequera: through a series of development stages.
Orlando Sequera: right all the way from start to completion when the final deliverables are completed.
Orlando Sequera: This is how you organize
Orlando Sequera: doing the work of your project.
Orlando Sequera: the logical breakdown that you have to follow in order to produce project deliverables.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: the project life cycle is going to be based on the industry that you're working on
Orlando Sequera: and organizational preferences and the development approach that you are
Orlando Sequera: that you are following the development approach, I mean predictive, adaptive
Orlando Sequera: or hybrid.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so pretty much the development approach is going to dictate how the project work is going to be conducted.
Orlando Sequera: And this is an example.
Orlando Sequera: Let's take a this is an actual predictive life cycle, right? And this is
Orlando Sequera: a graph of representation why we call it waterfall.
Orlando Sequera: So this shows a single face and an outline of the predictive
Orlando Sequera: approach.
Orlando Sequera: and this is a the Project Management Cycle is applied to each face. Using this predictive approach, meaning that before we move to design we have to complete visibility, and before we start working on building we have to complete the sign. Okay. So they are
Orlando Sequera: really useful when you have fixed requirements. When you have a fixed scope
Orlando Sequera: and your final ex, your fixed expectations of, though of that scope.
Orlando Sequera: When you understand the scope really well
Orlando Sequera: it, this is your best bet.
Orlando Sequera: There is a high element of control in
Orlando Sequera: By that I mean predictability
Orlando Sequera: in projects that follow a predictive life cycle. The plans drive
Orlando Sequera: the completion of the project. So this is
Orlando Sequera: a predictive life cycle in a visual format.
Orlando Sequera: but
Orlando Sequera: an adaptive like life cycle
Orlando Sequera: is a little bit different. We work in iterations, we work in iterations.
Orlando Sequera: It comes from the word iterari. It means that we do it multiple times.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, comes from Latin. So this works better in situations in which
Orlando Sequera: you have multiple changes. So you work on developing the functionally for a iteration number one. Then at the end you get feedback from your stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: You pre prioritize the scope.
Orlando Sequera: That's what we mean by backward reproduction, based on what based on value. And this this is going to be changing from one iteration to another, and then you start your iteration.
Orlando Sequera: and at the end of the iteration Again, you get the feedback from your stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: and you perform again backlog reproduction, which is re- prioritizing the features that you have to build
Orlando Sequera: before you start working
Orlando Sequera: on the next iteration until
Orlando Sequera: you are able to produce the final product service
Orlando Sequera: A:
Orlando Sequera: that was intended.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So we do things multiple times
Orlando Sequera: it rather than one big bank that we do in predictive. They're similar in a way.
Orlando Sequera: but the main differences, and by that I mean predictive and adaptive.
We do planning, we have planning in
Orlando Sequera: in in adaptive.
Orlando Sequera: we, but it's not a long face like
Orlando Sequera: what we have in predictive. But we do, planning one for each iteration. We do development, we do testing, and we do deployment. So it's
Orlando Sequera: basically what changes is the frequency we do it multiple times. That's how we can accommodate change if we are following an agile approach.
Orlando Sequera: If.
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to the cadence.
Orlando Sequera: this is about the timing and frequency of
Orlando Sequera: delivery
Orlando Sequera: A. The delivery of project deliverables
Orlando Sequera: usually for
Orlando Sequera: A. If we're following a predictive approach, we have a single
Orlando Sequera: a single cadence, which is one big delivery at the end of the project.
Orlando Sequera: That's usually what happens in construction. Right? We deliver the house completed. We'll do partial delivery like. Oh, we've delivering just the internal structure or just the foundation. No, we deliver the entire house completed it's one single delivery. The house built completely built at the end of the project.
Orlando Sequera: That's a single cadence.
Orlando Sequera: We can
Orlando Sequera: follow an approach in which we do multiple deliveries. The Liberals are separate into parts. They're not necessarily sequentially. For example.
Orlando Sequera: in the form of silica in the pharmaceutical industry.
Orlando Sequera: When they're trying to develop a new drug, they might have multiple deliveries. The first one might be the trial results. The second delivery might be the registration, and the third delivery might be the actual launch to the market.
Orlando Sequera: So some projects have multiple deliveries they don't necessarily have to be sequential.
Orlando Sequera: but they can be deliver separately. A. For example, if you're trying, another example will be if you're trying to update a security building for the government. You can delivery. You can deliver initially physical barriers, a new badging system.
Orlando Sequera: or a new key copath for a a keypad for entry.
Orlando Sequera: but they don't have to come in specific orders. That's a multiple delivery. So some projects. You have a multiple delivery that that's fine.
Orlando Sequera: or you can have
Orlando Sequera: a periodic delivery.
Orlando Sequera: and it's similar to multiple deliveries. But they are on a fixed schedule. We're doing this deliveries every month every 2 months.
Orlando Sequera: If software application.
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: software application projects, software development projects are a good example. You can deliver functionally every 2 weeks, every 3 weeks, every 4 weeks. That's we're following Kate, that cadence. It's a pre all the cadence. So
Orlando Sequera: we have 3 types of cadences.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: This is how the adaptive
Orlando Sequera: or agile development approach works, and this pretty much
Orlando Sequera: covers a what we do
Orlando Sequera: in adjo. It's gonna allow everyone to understand a little bit more about agile.
Orlando Sequera: Want to take a few minutes to go over this. I know you. You're having a lot of questions. We're going to address them a little bit later. Okay, so let's start understanding. Please pay attention to what?
Orlando Sequera: To to what we're covering here. This is important, especially for those of you that are new to
Orlando Sequera: in the far left.
Orlando Sequera: We start with developing the actual
Orlando Sequera: initial vision
Orlando Sequera: off
Orlando Sequera: the project.
Orlando Sequera: A
Orlando Sequera: an example.
Orlando Sequera: Go back in time. When he 20,
Orlando Sequera: a pharmaceutical companies, probably all of you remember they were trying to develop a vaccine for COVID-19. There was a race that all these major, from a certain companies, had in the end goal. They knew where where they were going. They were trying to produce a
Orlando Sequera: vaccine for COVID-19, with a high rate of efficiency and efficiency. That was the goal. How do we do that?
Orlando Sequera: We don't know
Orlando Sequera: we have. We're we're going to work on that. But that's the end grow. That's that initial vision. So in that case, since we don't know how to get
Orlando Sequera: there.
Orlando Sequera: that means that we're gonna be making we're gonna be changing directions multiple times. So chances are that at least in the development
Orlando Sequera: aspect
Orlando Sequera: of the vaccine. They followed an adaptive approach
Orlando Sequera: because they knew that they were maybe chain making changes, changing course, changing course at multiple times, so they start with creating a product backlog.
Orlando Sequera: A product backlog is
Orlando Sequera: an artifact. It's a running to do list. It's a running list of features that need to be developed by the project team. It's a container of features of functionality that
Orlando Sequera: basically. Oh, it's it's a running list that is always going to be changing. It's always going to be changing. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: based on what based on the priorities that our stakeholders have.
Orlando Sequera: That's how we can accommodate change. So. And that's why we say that this scope is not fixed in natural. It's going to be changing. We already know that going in. That's why we're using a pro backlog. That's why
Orlando Sequera: i'm sorry that's why we're using an adaptive approach and not a predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: The equivalent of the product backlog in predictive is something that we call a work breakdown structure, which is
Orlando Sequera: a graphic representation of the entire scope of the project. We're building the house and the Wbs is going to have all the information it's gonna cover all the information that that of the work that we have to complete, for
Orlando Sequera: in order to build that house. Okay. But here is different. We have a running list of functionality that is going to be changing. Some of that functionality is gonna drop completely. We might add new functionality. We might have to reorganize that. And we're gonna be doing that each
Orlando Sequera: every 2 weeks, every 3 weeks, every 4 weeks. Okay, then we move on
Orlando Sequera: to the actual iteration
Orlando Sequera: or sprint in that in scrum. Okay, they use the worst print here, because strum is very popular, and
Orlando Sequera: but it's the same things. It's Spring and iteration are the same thing. So
Orlando Sequera: from the per backlog we take those features, and we break them down. That functionality into requirements in agile. We call the requirements user stories.
Orlando Sequera: That's how we manage requirements.
Orlando Sequera: but it is different from predictive, as we're going to see when we talk about scope.
Orlando Sequera: These user stories are simple descriptions of the functionality from the customers perspective.
Orlando Sequera: and we'll elaborate on that a little bit later. But this is how we write
Orlando Sequera: requirements in agile in using the form of user stories. It's a short description of the functionality toll from the perspective of the customer They what what is it that I that
Orlando Sequera: that that I'm, that i'm looking for an example?
Orlando Sequera: Let's go back to the example of the software? For the accounting department. An example would be
Orlando Sequera: as a as an administrator. It starts with a role. Usually user stories
Orlando Sequera: start with a role as an administrator. I would like to be able to generate a monthly sales report. That is the second element, the actual functionality.
Orlando Sequera: And the third element of a user's story is the benefit.
Orlando Sequera: so that I can understand the monthly sales for the organization at any given time. So those are the 3 elements that you have with the user story. That's how we write requirements in agile okay.
Orlando Sequera: for
Orlando Sequera: during the iteration
Orlando Sequera: the team is going to grab some of the functionality.
Orlando Sequera: So in some of the functionality.
Orlando Sequera: some of those requirements written in the form of user stories, and they're going to start working on the developing those requirements
Orlando Sequera: in the actual.
Orlando Sequera: A,
Orlando Sequera: in the actual iteration of spring. This is when they're going to be doing the work.
Orlando Sequera: and then we see something here, Minimum viable product, Mvp: that is.
Orlando Sequera: for new products
Orlando Sequera: that is applicable to new products, new services, and new results. That's version one of what we're trying to do version one of that COVID-19 vaccine, and the team is gonna start working. And at the end of the iteration they're gonna deliver to the customer, and when they do that there's a specific ceremony
Orlando Sequera: for that. It's a spring review or Iteration Review, and that's where they're going to get cut
Orlando Sequera: customer feedback
Orlando Sequera: and depending on the customer feedback, they're going to
Orlando Sequera: a some functionality is not going to be accepted. Some new sisters are not going to be accepted. They're going to be drop, or we're going to have to make changes. That means that they need to. They're not accepted. They need to go back to the per backlog to be worked on at a later time. But some of that functionality is going to be accepted.
Orlando Sequera: and that can be delivered to production. Okay, that in essence, how it works, it's a little bit more
Orlando Sequera: a involved in that.
Orlando Sequera: But that's in essence how the adaptive development or agile
Orlando Sequera: a framework or approach works that's in essence. How it works okay, little bit different from what we do with with predictive.
Orlando Sequera: Now
Orlando Sequera: going to go over
Orlando Sequera: a little quiz here.
Orlando Sequera: If
Orlando Sequera: this is about development, approach and life cycle terminology.
Orlando Sequera: So project professionals use
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: deliverable development, approach faces or life cycle.
Orlando Sequera: It is
Orlando Sequera: a development approach
Orlando Sequera: which can be predictive.
Orlando Sequera: iterative, incremental, adaptive or hybrid to create and evolve a
Orlando Sequera: that's gonna be to create a that's what we produce with our project work which are the deliverables which is you and unique and verifiable products. We saw our capability to perform a service.
Orlando Sequera: A project is gonna pass through a series of logical related activities that we call
Orlando Sequera: basis
Orlando Sequera: from it starts to its completion, and this entire process from beginning to end. We call it
Orlando Sequera: life cycle
Orlando Sequera: right.
Orlando Sequera: and the acceptance
Orlando Sequera: of a
Orlando Sequera: blank. It's required to complete a process face of project, acceptance of what we produce with our work the acceptance of a deliverable
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: according to to Pmi research, and this is also my experience.
Orlando Sequera: Most projects. If you pay close attention, most projects and projects are hybrids.
Orlando Sequera: Most products are a combination of adaptive and predictive in some cases, that it would even venture to say that some organizations think that they're being 100% agile. But they're not. They have some to some degree, some predictive in their in the way they manage their projects. Most organizations for
Orlando Sequera: under that hybrid approach. Okay. But
Orlando Sequera: the keyboard here is tailoring.
Orlando Sequera: tailoring. If
Orlando Sequera: add that in project processes to the work that needs to be done
Orlando Sequera: as a pretty professional. Ideally, you should have the flexibility to tailor your approach for the exam that has to be part of your
Orlando Sequera: B and P. Mindset.
Orlando Sequera: You have the flexibility to choose the act, the best approach for your project, maybe in real life, in your current in your current organization, that's not the case. You are kind of forced to use a particular approach.
Orlando Sequera: not for the exam.
Orlando Sequera: You have that flexibility to choose the best approach for your situation.
Orlando Sequera: What we do with hybrid we combine both adaptive and predictive life cycles and development approaches. That's perfectly fine.
Orlando Sequera: This works well when the deliberals can be
Orlando Sequera: modularized
Orlando Sequera: or
Orlando Sequera: and which is leveraging modular development of the Liberals, or we can enable organizations to put more than one team to work on a project.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, and they use usually for development. They use an iterative and incremental. They use an agile approach for the development piece. They use an agile approach.
Orlando Sequera: even when we're doing hybrid
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: a a few examples
Orlando Sequera: for hybrid.
Orlando Sequera: for the approaches.
Orlando Sequera: A it is perfectly possible to use.
is
Orlando Sequera: my apologies. It's perfectly possible to use agile, or it's a rep. It. Iterative practices
Orlando Sequera: iterative practices within a predictive framework
Orlando Sequera: when you're building predictive artifacts or processes within an adaptive life cycle. When you're using business analysis, techniques
Orlando Sequera: helping with requirements management. When you start using new tools to identify complex elements and projects.
Orlando Sequera: Or when you're using organizational change mentioned method to prefer for transition and projects outputs into the organization. These are examples of hybrid project approaches.
Orlando Sequera: and you might be wondering what can be tailored.
Orlando Sequera: What can we, tailor specifically in a project that makes it a hybrid?
Orlando Sequera: The answer is.
Orlando Sequera: you can tailor the type
Orlando Sequera: of
Orlando Sequera: project life cycle and the faces that you use.
Orlando Sequera: You can, tailor. How the how will the war be performed? That means the development life cycle components.
Orlando Sequera: That's the team. Need a lot of
Orlando Sequera: continue continuous customer, feedback to the middle of the project. Yes or no.
Orlando Sequera: You can also tailor the way of working, which is how the people will on the project will work together.
Orlando Sequera: What kind of management approach should we use? We can also tailor the the knowledge management aspect, which is, how can the team make sure that we're following a collaborative
Orlando Sequera: approach?
Orlando Sequera: A: when it comes to the working environment
Orlando Sequera: change management. How the team going to approach changes to the project Work
Orlando Sequera: A that can be Taylor as well project governance.
Orlando Sequera: Where will pretty governance be located inside the project. Is the Pmo. Involved? Yes or no?
Orlando Sequera: Will the team establish a governance board? Yes or no, so you can tailor the private governance in some cases, and even benefits management.
Orlando Sequera: Who's responsible? How we're going to measure the the
Orlando Sequera: those benefits come into fruition. And when is all of this? Decide all of that can be tailored
Orlando Sequera: right.
Orlando Sequera: We are getting awfully close to our second break, but before that
Orlando Sequera: I am going to
Orlando Sequera: I'm. Going to review
Orlando Sequera: the Q. And a. I'm. Going to look for
Orlando Sequera: questions and remember to vote on the questions. Those are the ones that are going to be answered
Orlando Sequera: first.
Orlando Sequera: Right have your approach actually usually means each iteration of adaptive
Orlando Sequera: is predictive. No, it means that you're combining, using aspects of adaptive. And well, i'm predictive.
Orlando Sequera: Can a hybrid approach. Also be multiple, that it will create the faces. It's a little more involved than that. It's not just about the faces or the iterations. It's a little more than that. You can incorpor any aspect of vague, any aspect of a of adaptive.
Orlando Sequera: Combine that with other aspects of predictive, not necessarily on the faces or iterations so a little bit more involved than just that
Orlando Sequera: I will probably recommend you to
Orlando Sequera: review.
Orlando Sequera: if for those of you that are new to agile. I will strongly suggest you to read
Orlando Sequera: the agile Practice Guide.
Orlando Sequera: This covers all the agile that you need to know to be successful in the Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: This is one of the references
Orlando Sequera: is
Orlando Sequera: given. Take a 100 pages of content. This is a light reading. This I will recommend you to read, especially for those of you that are new to agile. I would recommend you to read the add, your practice guide.
Orlando Sequera: So polish my Pmi.
Orlando Sequera: It's called the agile practice. Guy: okay.
Orlando Sequera: let me.
Orlando Sequera: Can you repeat the 3 parts of a user story? Absolutely. The first element is the user.
Orlando Sequera: Or well? Well, no, they didn't have the user the role, the role.
Orlando Sequera: The second element is the actual functionality. And the third element of our user story is the benefit.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: that's done.
Orlando Sequera: Can documentation be considered as deliverable? Yes.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: it can be considered a deliverable. Yeah, it can be. At least it is a deliverable documentation. But it's mostly about the functionality that it's been built
Orlando Sequera: for the customer. The the project delivers it, the actual functionality that is being built.
Orlando Sequera: or throughout your project life cycle.
Orlando Sequera: Another question
Orlando Sequera: in a habit approach: how does the agile
Orlando Sequera: process map to waterfall.
Orlando Sequera: especially when the software output needs to be tested in on hardware.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: that's not really the actual combination you areas of your project. As I mentioned before, the procurement for the procurement.
Orlando Sequera: a aspect when you're working with third party vendors, and you're creating You're writing contracts and agreements with your vendors. You can use a a predictive approach for that.
Orlando Sequera: But the development piece of your project, you can follow an agile approach. That's kind of what we mean by hybrid. That's an example, right? As an example for different areas for some areas of your project. You can use an ideal approach for some areas with your project. You can use a predictive approach. That's what we mean by hybrid.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Can you give us an example for plan? Driven? Yes. Construction building the house. And can you give us an example for change? Riven Absolutely. A developing a mobile app to compete with Whatsapp. That will be an example for that.
Orlando Sequera: It's going to be changing a lot.
Orlando Sequera: Our product owners generate the sponsor champion, not necessarily a product owner is someone that is
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: think of it as a super user that is very familiar with the
Orlando Sequera: functionality that needs to be built, and if
Orlando Sequera: going to be the voice of the stakeholders is that liaison? Someone that is very familiar with the scope is this tour of this code?
Orlando Sequera: Is there a break coming up? Yes.
Orlando Sequera: what is the key difference between project
Orlando Sequera: for like cycle per like cycle is?
Orlando Sequera: And remember what we said it's about.
Orlando Sequera: They start an introduction of a product all the way through the retirement of the product. But within that life cycle which can be very long, you can have multiple projects in between. So it's an integration aspect.
Orlando Sequera: But it's totally different from from the project Management life cycle.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, all right. We're gonna take our
Orlando Sequera: a next break. We're going to be
Orlando Sequera: back in 10 min and
Orlando Sequera: and enjoy your break.
Orlando Sequera: So thank you very much, everyone. We'll be back in 10 min.
Orlando Sequera: Welcome back everyone. Hopefully.
Orlando Sequera: Yeah. Time to recharge and enjoy your break.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to continue with our class.
Orlando Sequera: AIM
Orlando Sequera: we to get caught up.
Orlando Sequera: We only have a handful of questions Content related
Orlando Sequera: that I would like to address before we continue.
Orlando Sequera: The first one is, what is the success rate of change-driven approach?
Orlando Sequera: It's
Orlando Sequera: a better framework, I will recommend you you. You can review
Orlando Sequera: publications by project management, by the program Management Institute, like the pulse of the profession that can help you with those statistics that is not really in scope for the exam.
Orlando Sequera: but by all means go to pmi.org
Orlando Sequera: review the
Orlando Sequera: I will say the polls of the profession.
Orlando Sequera: 22,
Orlando Sequera: that's the latest one, and you might. You might find some statistics on that, but that's really not in scope
Orlando Sequera: for the Pmp. Example. It's the best approach for situations in which there are multiple changes in a high level of complexity.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: There's another question in the Q. And a give an example of a product
Orlando Sequera: compared to a project, so
Orlando Sequera: they are different, but they also.
Orlando Sequera: So you're mentioning the new road, they when it comes to product right. You have to look at functionality. Think, for example, your your smartphone, right, whether you have an iphone or an Android, or any other type of phone
Orlando Sequera: for product. It's about functionality, the memory that you have in your
Orlando Sequera: the processor that you have in your phone, the memory camera that's product specification, that that that to produce that product there is a life cycle that goes all the way from
Orlando Sequera: the design of the product of that product all the way through the retirement or decline of that product. Right? So you gotta look at functionality or or look at the highway from that perspective. How many links you have? How many they are you using concrete or using as phone?
Orlando Sequera: I i'm not a construction project manager. So please forgive me if I if I say something that of a a out of line. But if, when it comes to product, look at functionality at actual, it's about functionality, it's about specifications of the actual product. But the project.
Orlando Sequera: if they work, it combines way much more than just that functionality. It combines a multiple
Orlando Sequera: factors, multiple areas that we have to
Orlando Sequera: that we have to follow a systematic approach that we have to follow in order to produce that
Orlando Sequera: a that final product, right, a all those different activities or tasks that we have to complete and multiple areas that we have to track and work on systematically to produce that final product. And
Orlando Sequera: in order to develop the life cycle of a product is way way much more long time than the one of an actual. Let me go back to that slide for a second to explain that
Orlando Sequera: it's usually way much more longer than the life cycle of
Orlando Sequera: a project. And this slide i'm looking for it
Orlando Sequera: and remember which slide.
Orlando Sequera: but I think it's
Orlando Sequera: is actually
Orlando Sequera: oh, a little bit back.
Orlando Sequera: It's right here. Yeah, this one. So you see multiple projects just to create
Orlando Sequera: one
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: just to cover the entire life cycle of a product. This is
Orlando Sequera: this is a private life cycle. But we have multiple projects just to
Orlando Sequera: just
Orlando Sequera: for the product life cycle. Right?
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So it's an integration point. That's what I was trying to
Orlando Sequera: to point out.
Orlando Sequera: But look at functionality. You gotta look at functionality specifications that's product
Orlando Sequera: life cycle. But a for project project life cycle is is different, and what is in scope for your Pmp. Xm. Is going to be project life cycle.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And we're going to go back to where we were.
Okay.
Oh.
Orlando Sequera: okay, Can you walk us through an example of an adaptive project absolutely. They saw we're trying to develop a new streaming service, or we're trying that come to compete with Netflix. So we're trying to develop a new music application to compete with Pandora. We know what
Orlando Sequera: what the end goal is, but we don't know how to get there, so that's where we use. That's where following Nigel approach is going to be our best PET.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: there is a general question that is not related to the content, but nonetheless. I'm going to answer it, because it's going to help all of you.
Orlando Sequera: I, if I have older. Pmp. Story materials, books and practice tests from 2021
Orlando Sequera: before 2021. No, do not use that.
Orlando Sequera: It has to be aligned with the current version. The exam changed tremendously in 2,021 anything before 2,021. No, do not use that. It can be misguided. It was totally different. So use
Orlando Sequera: and you have it. You have it here with skills of you. Have it. Go to your resources. You have all the materials that you need
Orlando Sequera: to get ready for the Pmp. Example Anything before 2021. No, it's a in capitals. No.
Orlando Sequera: no, no, no.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: Another question.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: If in a big project software development there are all 3. The project managers
Orlando Sequera: for the owner and scrum master how to differentiate responsibilities.
Orlando Sequera: What is mainly up to pragmatic. Well, you just tour the project you do. Your role is more enhanced than it's similar to the one of a scrum master. But the scrum master is more about
Orlando Sequera: a following best crum practices and coaching the team. But a project manager is going to be in charge of the scope which are in charge, not the scope that is the pro owner in charge of the budget in charge of the the schedule. So it's more involved. Okay, it's more involved.
Orlando Sequera: The product owner is going to be in charge of the scope. The scrum master is going to be a
Orlando Sequera: It's going to be a servant leader to the scrum team. But the pro manager has more responsibilities than just the team
Orlando Sequera: as we have been covering so far.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: A
Orlando Sequera: Any other questions.
Orlando Sequera: All right. We're going to continue with the content.
Orlando Sequera: Please keep the questions mostly related to the content as much as possible.
The
Orlando Sequera: our per managers also stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: yes.
Orlando Sequera: and or sponsors of a project. They can also be
Orlando Sequera: Yeah, there's stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: dip there.
Orlando Sequera: Simple project of building a house.
Orlando Sequera: mostly predictive. Start start, stop next step. Serious builds, but where a lot of
Orlando Sequera: aspects are done in parallel like plumbing and wearing. But you still need to follow a sequence and coordinate that
Orlando Sequera: a an example of agile applied to construction. And when I used your question to pig it back, to explain that
Orlando Sequera: it wouldn't be
Orlando Sequera: necessarily plumbing and wiring, because you have to coordinate that, and you
Orlando Sequera: have to define those activities really well in sequence them You're still following a predictive approach, but it
Orlando Sequera: in construction. Whenever construction companies want to test a new material, many of them are using an agile approach just for that aspect, for a and the research and development. So it is possible to use a agile or adaptive even in construction.
Orlando Sequera: Hmm. So we'll be safe to say that the various fres will be separate from. Not necessarily. You can combine. Not necessarily, not necessarily.
Orlando Sequera: You can combine that functionality producing that functionality that is project manager. For that.
Orlando Sequera: If I understand the question correctly, that is
Orlando Sequera: how long is the project life cycle for something like the development of the new iphone. Well, with the pain. So that's a
Orlando Sequera: It depends on the scope, right? What? What function I do? You need to understand the functionality that you're trying to produce.
Orlando Sequera: It's hard to can just do that out of thin air. Right? You need to know what you're working on, so you can. Then they understand how long it's going to take you to build it.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Another question in the in the Q. A. Do you think an adaptive project is also related to a more relaxed risk. Tolerance? No, no, not necessarily.
Orlando Sequera: The only difference is, it's not more relaxed.
Orlando Sequera: We try to address uncertainties in agile projects. Early in the project
Orlando Sequera: as early as possible.
Orlando Sequera: boarding a predictive
Orlando Sequera: a approach, we do it as more information becomes available, but it's not about being more relaxed If
Orlando Sequera: we try to address, risk as early as possible in adaptive
Orlando Sequera: in in the in aaptive or agile
approaches.
All right.
Orlando Sequera: all right. I think we're getting cut off
Orlando Sequera: with the questions.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: A few
Orlando Sequera: guidance aspect when it comes to the development approaches.
Orlando Sequera: Now that we understand the different life cycles and the development approaches. We talked about the cadence, and we talked. We also talked about the
Orlando Sequera: the faces.
Orlando Sequera: It.
Orlando Sequera: It's true that organizational governance has an impact in
Orlando Sequera: enterprise environmental factors that we have set before they're going to have a major.
Orlando Sequera: a a a major impact
Orlando Sequera: on determining the life cycle of our project.
Orlando Sequera: You can understand what else might be possible. Remember that your main role as a project manager, your main job as a project manager is to ensure as much as possible. Project so a successful project outcome for your project
Orlando Sequera: A. And also when you are deciding the approach
Orlando Sequera: you need to work with the team. You need to consult the team and understand the process and comes of each approach for your specific situation, for your specific project that can help your team in focus on thinking whether a single delivery or a face or a face, one is better. Or
Orlando Sequera: if time boxing is gonna work like using iterations, for example, or sprint, or using a continuous flow, is gonna work.
Orlando Sequera: So there.
Orlando Sequera: by getting them involved in that discussion they're the ones that are going to be doing the work They shouldn't be decided by you as the project manager, do you? It's about collaboration, right? So this is another aspect that is going to
Orlando Sequera: that you need to take into account. You have to collaborate with your team members when in deciding the best development, approach the best cadence.
Orlando Sequera: then determine the actual, the best project life cycle and the faces. If we're going to use faces and answer a few questions, what about the unplanned work, or do we know all the work that we have to complete for the project. A.
Orlando Sequera: How does the team prefer to work? What is the best cadence for our specific situation. Should it be a single delivery, or should it be a periodic delivery every 2 weeks, or should be? Should it be a single delivery?
Orlando Sequera: What does the customer want? That's probably the 1 one of the most important ones
Orlando Sequera: It do. They want incremental value delivery, meaning that do
Orlando Sequera: It's a beneficial for them to get
Orlando Sequera: partial functionality so they can start working with that functionality as early as possible. Or are they looking for a single delivery? What is our schedule.
Orlando Sequera: Do we want to have a steady or building approach, or do we want a faster pace
Orlando Sequera: also? What is the risk? Appetite.
Orlando Sequera: a, or threshold, and our iteration so springs helpful in our situation.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So we need to understand that as well.
Orlando Sequera: Also.
Orlando Sequera: in order to understand
Orlando Sequera: and determine the best approach for our project. There are some tools that can help you
Orlando Sequera: it.
Orlando Sequera: Ralph Stacey
Orlando Sequera: is an author that came up with a stacy complexity model.
Orlando Sequera: and this is used in all kinds of contexts to understand the complexity of a thing in terms of the degree of certain of certainty about requirements.
Orlando Sequera: and also the technology
Orlando Sequera: and knowledge available to complete the work.
Orlando Sequera: So Pmi made an adaptation of the Stacy complexity model that can help you, a. To understand which one is going to be your your best, your best bet. So
Orlando Sequera: are you. And when so, these are the 2 dimensions, right that you are evaluating in the when it comes to the complexity model. Your the first I mentioned is
Orlando Sequera: requirements in the y-axis, or the vertical access, and then you have technical capability. That is the second dimension in the horizontal access or the X
access.
Orlando Sequera: And then, if it's, if you're close to agreement when it comes to requirements and technical capability close to certainty, then it's a simple approach. You're it's a simple situation that you that you're navigating. And in this case
Orlando Sequera: a linear approach meaning predictive waterfall traditional works better here.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: if your technical capability and
Orlando Sequera: and your requirements, understanding is not close to an agreement, it's really far from agreement, it's complicated.
Orlando Sequera: This adaptive approach. This is where Agile works better, or if it's far from agreement
Orlando Sequera: and far from certainty. This is also when adaptive works better
Orlando Sequera: or adjo. But if it's really
Orlando Sequera: far from agreement when it comes to requirements of far from certainly, when it comes to think of capability, that's pretty much a chaos, and that is fundamentally risky. Maybe we need. Do. We need to understand a little bit more, at least to know where we're going.
Orlando Sequera: and before we undertake a a project in that situation. So this is one tool that can help you to navigate a to determine which approach is the best for our specific situation.
Orlando Sequera: Another
Orlando Sequera: tool is what they call a suitability filter.
Orlando Sequera: and this can help. This tool can help the project team to consider whether a project
Orlando Sequera: A has characteristics that lend themselves towards a predictive, agile, or hybrid, or other, our
Orlando Sequera: or or hybrid right? So you it you take into account multiple dimensions.
Orlando Sequera: A. If this is about a questioner
Orlando Sequera: that is going to ask questions about the culture
Orlando Sequera: of the organization. Do we have a supportive environment
Orlando Sequera: with buying for the approach and frost in the team
Orlando Sequera: is, and then the next I mentioned it's going to be. The team is the team of a suitable size to be successful in adopting a job, yes or no.
Orlando Sequera: and and then do do the members have the necessary experience and access to business representatives to be successful?
Orlando Sequera: A and the other dimension is the project? Do we have high rates of change?
Orlando Sequera: Yes or no? Is the is incremental delivery possible? How critical is the project? So based on this?
Orlando Sequera: A sort of bitter filter. You
Orlando Sequera: start connecting the dots in this radar chart, and the clusters of value around the center
Orlando Sequera: indicate a good fit for agile approaches.
Orlando Sequera: The results around the outside
Orlando Sequera: indicate
Orlando Sequera: good result for a predictive approach. But if you have anything in the middle, and it it gives you the idea right. So anything here
Orlando Sequera: close to the center.
Orlando Sequera: The better idea to use agile for this particular situation.
Orlando Sequera: it seems to be a better idea to use agile or adaptive.
Orlando Sequera: If it's
Orlando Sequera: outside of the center
Orlando Sequera: hybrid, it's gonna be your best bet. But if it's far out of the center, then going with a predictive approach is going to be your best bet. So you can use these tools.
Orlando Sequera: This is, explain in a little bit more detail in your
Orlando Sequera: agile right, this Guy.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: but these are tools that can help you to determine which approach. Should I follow a adaptive or predictive or
Orlando Sequera: hybrid
Orlando Sequera: another tool
Orlando Sequera: or or
Orlando Sequera: well, not really another 2, a.
Orlando Sequera: When it comes to
Orlando Sequera: iterative and incremental. And I have seen in this class there's a little bit of confusion. Iterative means that we do it multiple times, right? Iterative and in increments means that we're building pieces of functionally. One
Orlando Sequera: one piece at a time, one iteration at a time.
Orlando Sequera: Agile is both
Orlando Sequera: is is both iterative and incremental.
Orlando Sequera: Okay agile is both iterative and incremental.
Orlando Sequera: When it comes to incremental approach, we produce deliverable successfully
Orlando Sequera: in pieces or modules, and we're adding functionally until the final deliverable contains the necessary and sufficient capability to be considered as complete.
Orlando Sequera: With an iterative approach, pure iterative approach, we focus on an initial simplified implementation, and then we build
Orlando Sequera: over time
Orlando Sequera: progressively adopting the feature until the actual final delivery is complete.
Orlando Sequera: That's what we mean by iterative.
Orlando Sequera: combine the 2 incremental and iterative. And that's what agile is. That's what adaptive is. Okay. It's both
Orlando Sequera: iterative and incremental.
Orlando Sequera: Again, hybrid is a combination of predictive
Orlando Sequera: and adaptive
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: predictive is not iterative and incremental? Okay.
Orlando Sequera: they're compatible with each other, as I mentioned before, it's not agile or or adaptive versus predictive or waterfall is agile and predictive, and then we can make some match. That's what we call hybrid. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: and they can help you
Orlando Sequera: depending on your depending on the situation that you are facing.
Orlando Sequera: Now.
Orlando Sequera: we are going to watch a video that is gonna help us to
Orlando Sequera: understand a little bit more about the iterative way of working. This is going to help us a little bit more to understand about the iterative way of working
the word iterate.
It comes from the Latin iterare.
meaning to repeat
Thus an iterative way of working repeats itself over and over.
optimizing itself each time it does
in an iterative process.
workflows into the product backlog from minimum business increments and from the release roadmap.
The product backlog is where the team collects all the work flowing to the team.
The product owner prioritizes the product backlog
signaling to the team what work is the most important
At the start of each iteration the team pulls the work they plan to do from the product backlog into the iteration backlog.
This is a key point.
The team pulls the amount of work it thinks it can get done during the iteration, not the product owner, team manager, or stakeholders.
The iteration is the time box around the team's work.
The team starts with the iteration planning and ends with the Iteration Review.
Agile teams usually choose between an iteration length of one to 4 weeks, with 2 weeks, being the most common choice
regularly. The team meets for a coordination meeting.
also called a stand up or scrum.
The stand-up helps the team coordinate and work in a quick and informal way.
The iteration of review ends the iteration.
This review has 2 parts. It reviewed.
use the product and solution built in the iteration and the process. How the team worked together.
and what got in their way
in the demo the team showcases, what they accomplished in the iteration
the demo focuses on value-delivered and feedback from stakeholders. In the retrospective the team takes time away from their busy schedule to reflect on how they work together in the iteration.
What aspects made them go faster and be successful.
What aspects got in their way of reaching their goals?
The team looks both internally inside the team and externally outside the team.
The team also lays out a plan to fix some of the points that got in their way during the next iteration.
When an iteration is complete.
We go back and start over with the iteration, planning and pulling work from product backlog into the iteration backlog. During the next planning
the agile iterative process contains a series of artifacts and ceremonies.
Artifacts are the objects produced within an iteration.
Ceremonies are activities that take place during an iteration.
For example, the product. Backlog is an artifact. It's the complete list of work required to create the product.
It collects all the work flowing to the team.
The iteration backlog is another artifact.
That's the list of work to be completed in the current iteration.
and it's supposed to be done in the order determined by the team.
There are a couple more artifacts that Aren't shown on our diagram
user stories capture a description of a feature from an end user perspective.
A user story describes the type of user what they want and why
a burn down chart is a graphic representation of how quickly the team is working through user stories
we actually touched on most of the ceremonies earlier.
These include iteration, planning
the coordination, meeting.
the iteration, demonstration, or demo
and the iteration retrospective
Orlando Sequera: right so a lot of information that was covering the video. Please don't feel overwhelmed.
Orlando Sequera: We're gonna be covering those ceremonies in more detail. So the pro backlog is coming in the next lesson and the iteration backlog as well. There are 2 containers.
Orlando Sequera: That's how we manage to go for our projects in. If we're following an agile approach.
Orlando Sequera: We're gonna talk in more detail about the user stories. I mentioned that briefly again. That's how we write requirements in agile the burn down chart.
Orlando Sequera: That's how we track project progress.
Orlando Sequera: That's gonna be in less than Number 5. Later in the week iteration planning there is planning in that
Orlando Sequera: a contrary to popular relief. There is planning magic. We're gonna talk about iteration planning that is, in the next lesson Lesson number 3.
Orlando Sequera: There are some ceremonies that were mentioned here the coordination meeting or a daily stand up
Orlando Sequera: or so daily scrum. We're gonna talk about that. The iteration demonstration. We're gonna talk about that in Lesson Number 5,
Orlando Sequera: and then the iteration retrospective. Where we go over a possible improvements or lessons learned that is content. That is part of Lesson number 4. So a lot of information here.
Orlando Sequera: But this is just a way for you to understand how it the iterative way of working works. And this is for specifically for agile. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So don't let it overwhelm you. We're gonna break it down for you.
Orlando Sequera: Now, we're going to talk about scrum.
Orlando Sequera: As I mentioned before, Scrum is just
Orlando Sequera: a flavor of at one of many do you have multiple flavors of at all? We have extreme programming.
Orlando Sequera: If we have
Orlando Sequera: other
Orlando Sequera: approaches like safe, we have.
Orlando Sequera: We have Camden. We have other flavors out there that we can use for that we have for agile. It's not just a scrum. It's not all. Not all agile is crumb. It's. It's like chocolate, right? It's one flavor. It's probably the most popular one, but not necessarily. It's not the only one. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: it is a framework. It is not a methodology.
Orlando Sequera: and you might be wondering. So what is the difference between a framework and a methodology? A methodology is prescriptive
Orlando Sequera: methodology. A methodology gives you step by step. This is what these are the actions that you need to take the steps that you need to follow in order to be agile. For example, No. In prescription, and prescriptive and agile don't, get along. That's like water and and oil. They don't mix
Orlando Sequera: so agile is not prescriptive. Scrum is not a it's not a methodology. It is a framework. It gives you suggestions
Orlando Sequera: on how the work can be organized, but you can always tailor. You can always tailor that with the end goal of maximizing value to your end, user
Orlando Sequera: scrum is gonna be implemented at the product development team level, and probably that's part of the secret
Orlando Sequera: off it's success. It's very easy to implement. You implemented at the team level is not like safe, for example, which is very popular nowadays, but it's implemented at the organizational level.
Orlando Sequera: But scrum, you can implement it at the team level, and it has mainly
Orlando Sequera: a 3 roles.
Orlando Sequera: Grum has 3 roles.
Orlando Sequera: They have a scrum master.
Orlando Sequera: which is an individual that is in charge of being a servant leader to the scrum team.
Orlando Sequera: and he's someone that is going to coach the team in.
Orlando Sequera: adopt him, and following
Orlando Sequera: agile approaches and scrum and scrum best practices.
Orlando Sequera: And it's also going to coach the product owner, and it's also
Orlando Sequera: gonna coach all their stakeholders as needed. That is the scrum master role number 1 s role that you have in a scrum team is
Orlando Sequera: the product owner. The product owner is
Orlando Sequera: the liaison between the stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: and the business, and the project team is an in the is the steward of the scope of the project is in charge of that product backlog that we saw in the video that is going to be the actual
Orlando Sequera: product owner, someone that is very familiar with the scope. And it's
Orlando Sequera: Rep. Is this tour of that scope, making sure that the team is building the functionality that adds the most value
Orlando Sequera: to
Orlando Sequera: the business to the stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: And the third row that we have in scrum is
Orlando Sequera: the people doing the work, the team members.
Orlando Sequera: and it's also.
Orlando Sequera: They're also known as developers. To not necessarily software. Developers only can be any skill set that is needed to produce the work in the team. So those are the 3 rows and pay attention to something.
Orlando Sequera: Project Manager is not a role recognized by scrum. By no means. I'm. Saying that scrum teams cannot work with project managers. That is not what i'm saying. What i'm saying is that the only 3 roles that are recognized by scrum are
Orlando Sequera: scrum master.
Orlando Sequera: which
Orlando Sequera: in a way, it's very close. It's very similar. It's the closest one to the traditional project manager that we know what is what is different in some capacity.
Orlando Sequera: The second role that we have is the product owner, and the third one is
Orlando Sequera: the team members or
Orlando Sequera: developers. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: so keep that in mind
Orlando Sequera: and add your framework as we see here. This is important. It's about
Orlando Sequera: It's not about following the ceremonies that we're gonna see in a second, that is doing agile. They giving you best practices, right? They're giving you suggestions on how you can organize the work, how you can do the work. These are guidelines that they're giving you, that you can follow in order to be successful.
Orlando Sequera: E. E. For following an approach. That in which you're facing high complexity or multiple changes. It's going to help you in that regard. But it's way much more than just that. It's about the mindset right? We have
Orlando Sequera: It's not just following this ceremony that we're going to see. It's about the mindset. It's about being able to pave up, being able to have that we cannot have a successful, agile transformation if we are just using this ceremonies that we see here. But we are still a following
Orlando Sequera: that we we are still following a a a predictive mindset, this those 2 don't match it to for for this to work. There has to be a shift
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to the mindset of that. That takes time. That takes time. That taste collaboration takes a involvement from opera management, a at multiple levels. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: let's talk about the ceremonies that we mentioned in our
Orlando Sequera: that we mentioned earlier in the class in in the video. Actually, we touch
Orlando Sequera: over those ceremonies. The first one is
Orlando Sequera: spring planning.
Orlando Sequera: and these ceremonies are going to help us to navigate that complexity, right? These are special meetings. Special ceremonies that we have in agro ceremony is a meeting basically the first one is spring planning.
Orlando Sequera: This is where this is about scope. This is about the work that we're going to be doing in a current sprint or iteration.
Orlando Sequera: The team is gonna get together with the product owner to understand. Okay, Miss Misses, for the owner, Mr. Per owner.
Orlando Sequera: we are going to take some.
Orlando Sequera: We're gonna take the items that that are at the top of the product backlog. Remember, the pro backlog is a running list that is always changing. But whatever is at the top.
Orlando Sequera: that means that those are the most important pieces of functionality that
Orlando Sequera: they that needs to be developed
Orlando Sequera: a first.
Orlando Sequera: So that's gonna signal to the product team that that that they're gonna be taking the fashion, right? That's what they're gonna be developing in their in their iterations. Okay, so they're gonna take always functionally from the top user stories. They're gonna take always user. Stories from the top.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, the scrum master is going to facilitate. But the team. This is where the team is gonna I. I'll give you an example. We're talking about the software Development Project for your
Orlando Sequera: for the accounting department.
Orlando Sequera: Let's assume that
Orlando Sequera: the team
Orlando Sequera: takes a user's story.
Orlando Sequera: which is
Orlando Sequera: as an administrator. I would like to develop.
Orlando Sequera: I as an administrator. I would like to be able to generate a monthly sales report, so that I can understand monthly sales for the organization at any given time. That is a user story. What happens in spring planning.
Orlando Sequera: This is where the team starts asking questions to the program owner. Okay, Mr. Perk, Owner misses for owner.
Orlando Sequera: What type of report are you looking for? Are you looking for
Orlando Sequera: Pdf. Report, or are you looking for an excel spreadsheet report?
Orlando Sequera: What field do you want to see in that report.
Orlando Sequera: What
Orlando Sequera: type of fun do you want to
Orlando Sequera: seeing that report? What type of
Orlando Sequera: it
Orlando Sequera: is this report feeding all the reports
Orlando Sequera: or our other reports fit in this report.
Orlando Sequera: What type of information do you want to display in this report?
Orlando Sequera: A:
Orlando Sequera: So you they start asking specific questions about the functionality? Okay, that they're trying to develop. That happens in spring client. And and this is also where the team
Orlando Sequera: it's going to estimate the level of effort associated with
Orlando Sequera: developing this function. This is where they're going to say, okay, this is a large, a endeavor. This is a large. This is a complex endeavor.
Orlando Sequera: They usually use the Fibonacci series
Orlando Sequera: with the user story points. We'll talk about that later. But this one is going to have a large number of points.
Orlando Sequera: I will venture to say that something like this monthly sales report is a 21 use a 21 user story point
Orlando Sequera: the estimation
Orlando Sequera: a probably depending on the number of team members that we have in the team. It might be the only feature that they're gonna be working on for that for the next 2 weeks. Assuming that we're working on iterations that last 2 weeks. Okay, that happens in spring planning. Then
Orlando Sequera: everybody makes a commitment. That
Orlando Sequera: user story moves from the product backlog to a smaller container that we call the iteration backlog.
Orlando Sequera: The team gets answers for all their questions, and then the work starts.
Orlando Sequera: But every day we're gonna have a sure and sweet meeting, the only for the team members and the scrum master to get
Orlando Sequera: coordination.
Orlando Sequera: It's not a status report. It's a coordination meeting, not a status meeting, and they're going to ask mainly 3 questions.
Orlando Sequera: They're gonna share with their teammates. This is what I worked on before. This is gonna what i'm gonna be working on today. And this is, and more importantly, if they have any roadblocks or any impediments that are preventing them from moving forward. They
Orlando Sequera: strum. Master has to address those impediments, has to remove those impediments. That's part of being a servant leader right
Orlando Sequera: at the end of the iteration. What's gonna happen is that spring review
Orlando Sequera: which in most cases includes a demo.
Orlando Sequera: They're going to showcase the functionality
Orlando Sequera: off that was built during the spring. This is where they're gonna get everyone together, all the stakeholders, not just the program owner. Everyone that needs to be invited. I will invite probably all the users that are going to be working with this
Orlando Sequera: with the accounting software. And this is where we're going to not using powerpoint slides. You're gonna run. You're gonna showcase to them. You're gonna log into the application and show them in real time how to run. This is where you need to go, Mr. User or missus. User you log in here. This is the information that you need to enter to generate a monthly sales report and voila! This is the
Orlando Sequera: Pdf report, with all the fields that you wanted to see. And this is what we build. That is the demo.
Orlando Sequera: This is where they, the user they, the stakeholders, the customers are gonna provide their feedback. Yes, that's what we're expecting. Oh, or they might say no. We we needed a an excel spreadsheet, not a Pdf.
Orlando Sequera: A format a report so that needs to be reworked. So they're going to either approve or reject. That has to be documented. You have to capture the sign off, and that's the end of that spring review, and what also happens at the end of each it rate
Orlando Sequera: and is the spring retrospective.
Orlando Sequera: but lessons learned. This is an opportunity for the team
Orlando Sequera: together to
Orlando Sequera: to self. Reflect on what, when will, what can be improved?
Orlando Sequera: And some of those improvements or lessons are are going, we're going to be able to incorporate them, to apply them in the Ver index iteration. So those are the 4 ceremonies that we have
Orlando Sequera: force. Chrome
Orlando Sequera: is specifically for scrum.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: or add your ceremonies.
Orlando Sequera: We have a product strategy meeting. This is where the port owner shares the provision. We have a the daily stand up.
Orlando Sequera: This is a short and street meeting
Orlando Sequera: any work, most cases 15 min. Basically
Orlando Sequera: it's a coordination meeting for the team members. Mainly
Orlando Sequera: it to it doesn't have to necessarily be every day. But ideally it's a daily coordination that happens. Another ceremony that happens is backlog refinement. This is prioritizing the backlog, making sure that the functionality that's the most value is at the top.
Orlando Sequera: and they want to add less value is at the bottom. And then, with the project. Retrospective happens at the end to go over lessons, learn and possible improvements that we can incorporate in the future.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so that's
Orlando Sequera: about
Orlando Sequera: ads of ceremonies, and we cover specifically for scrum very similar. But this is generic right for agile.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: A little summary of what we have cover. So far
Orlando Sequera: we have been able to
Orlando Sequera: work on determining the appropriate project methodology, methods, and practices
Orlando Sequera: we have been able to go over a measuring.
Orlando Sequera: We have project needs complexity and magnitude.
Orlando Sequera: We also went over
Orlando Sequera: recommending project execution strategy, and also working, recommending a product, methodology, and approach. So
Orlando Sequera: that is the link to our exam content outline.
Orlando Sequera: and that takes us to the end of Lesson number 2.
Orlando Sequera: So we are done with lessons, Number one and number 2.
Orlando Sequera: Now we're going to start with
Orlando Sequera: Lesson number 3,
Orlando Sequera: and we're going to start with planning.
Orlando Sequera: Start with planning
Orlando Sequera: a few learning objectives that we have with this lesson. We're just going to start with planning. But tomorrow we're going to continue in those covering those different areas. This is we're going to do a deeper dive of scope schedule resources brought that risk quality, and
Orlando Sequera: when all those different plans come together in either gray integration.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: still learning objectives.
Orlando Sequera: we are going to be able to understand the importance of a project management plan a big umbrella that we have for project
Orlando Sequera: that covers all the different areas of a project
Orlando Sequera: we're going to understand, gonna provide an overview of scope, planning.
Orlando Sequera: regardless of the approach. Whether it is predictive or adaptive.
Orlando Sequera: We're gonna go.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to be able to provide an overview of scheduled planning, following both approaches. Whether it is predictive or adaptive.
Orlando Sequera: We're also gonna talk about resource planning for a project we briefly mentioned that before. But we're gonna do a deeper dive here. Remember, when we talk about resources, it's not only human resources. It's also physical resources. And also
Orlando Sequera: we're gonna go over the impact on procurement. We're also gonna go over broad jetting
Orlando Sequera: the importance of tailoring a budget. We're also going to talk about risk.
Orlando Sequera: We are going to.
Orlando Sequera: They understand the possible responses to risk. We're going to be able to identify risks.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to be able to
Orlando Sequera: analyze risks from 2 perspectives, qualitative and quantitative. And then we're going to determine those responses. Then we're going to talk about quality. And last, but not least, we're going to talk about integration. All those different areas, all those different.
Orlando Sequera: the aspects of any project. They all come together under that big umbrella that we call the project Management plan
Orlando Sequera: all right
Orlando Sequera: without any further view.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to start talking about planning.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to
Orlando Sequera: talk about how projects project teams can plan for successful outcomes.
Orlando Sequera: using and following Pmi best practices, which is what we have to focus on for the Pmp. Xm. This something in this section, mostly for the most part, is related to the second domain in your exam Content outline, which by now you should know by heart, which is
Orlando Sequera: process
Orlando Sequera: memories, we have 3 domains
Orlando Sequera: people domain. That accounts for 42 Of the questions in your Pmp. Exam. Second domain is process. That accounts for 50 of the questions in your pmp. Exam. And the third domain is business environment which we started covering yesterday. That accounts for 8% of your Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: right?
Orlando Sequera: When it comes to planning. That starts
Orlando Sequera: with a project management plan
Orlando Sequera: every single project, regardless of the industry, regardless of the location, regardless of the sector.
Orlando Sequera: regardless of the development approach. Whether we're going with agile. Whether we're going with a
Orlando Sequera: predictive, we need a project management plan.
Orlando Sequera: The Project management plan is going to describe how the project is going to be executed.
Orlando Sequera: how the project is going to be monitored and control.
Orlando Sequera: and, more importantly, how the product is going to be closed.
Orlando Sequera: It's gonna be
Orlando Sequera: a big umbrella
Orlando Sequera: that integrates and consolidates
Orlando Sequera: all the subsidiary management plans
Orlando Sequera: and baselines from
Orlando Sequera: multiple areas of the project.
Orlando Sequera: This is what's going to help us, too.
Orlando Sequera: A
Orlando Sequera: establish guard rails to maintain controls. That is how
Orlando Sequera: is helpful
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to adaptive or agile projects and also hybrid projects.
Orlando Sequera: It. It provides the structure of guardrails for the team's work, so they have some boundaries
Orlando Sequera: while they shape the vision of the product, together with the part owner.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So
Orlando Sequera: think of the project management plan
Orlando Sequera: for those of you that remember that a
Orlando Sequera: before, whenever you bought a brand new car it used to come with an owners manual
Orlando Sequera: right. It was in the glove box, and you will have access to your owners Manual, and whenever you faced an issue, let's say that you're in your car dashboard a like came on check engine like.
Orlando Sequera: What do I do
Orlando Sequera: back in the day? Not now, but back in the day. Oh, check engine like what do I do, or I. We're we're live in the dashboard. I don't know what that is, so we will go and check the owners.
Orlando Sequera: They the user May, the car manual in this case, right? And okay, that is.
Orlando Sequera: that means this. And this is what we have to do.
Orlando Sequera: It's the same principle for the project management plan for, and the chapters or sections of that owners Guide or users Skype for your project
Orlando Sequera: are going to be the different areas. You have one section for scope where section for budget, one section for schedule, one section for resources.
Orlando Sequera: one section for risk, one section for stakeholders from Section 4, a communication, and so on and so forth. So multiple sections. And each section is going to have a specific plan as that's what we call subsidiary plan.
Orlando Sequera: The risk management, plan, communication, management, plan and stakeholder engagement plan. Those are the subsidiary plans. We put them together, and that's how we can.
Orlando Sequera: That's how we can have this big umbrella or this, user this owners manual for our project. This is gonna help us. This is gonna help us tremendously. It is going to help us with. We think of when it comes to sports.
Orlando Sequera: a situation happens in a game. What do we do? We have a think of soccer or football.
Orlando Sequera: What do we do? Well, we go to the Rule book. So the rules are gonna be contained here in the plans. That's why we create the plans.
Orlando Sequera: Think of the Rule Book for your entire project that will help you to address situations when they happen. What do I do, I? We're not performing. We're over, run we we're we're experiencing cost over runs, and we're our schedule is delayed. What do I do? Or this new risk materialized?
Orlando Sequera: What do I do so.
Orlando Sequera: You don't have time to build the Rule book when you're facing the situation. That's why we do it at the beginning of our project. That's why we work on creating this project Management plan. This is going to be your go to research that it's going to help you to address those situations. You. You can't wait until you face them
Orlando Sequera: to create them. You do it at the beginning. Of course this is a living document as well. These plans can evolve and change as more information becomes available. But you need to start training them at the beginning in
Orlando Sequera: when you are when you're working on planning.
Orlando Sequera: and you're going to have to create
Orlando Sequera: a lot of project documentation.
Orlando Sequera: These project documents, combined with the plans. They're going to help you to navigate your
Orlando Sequera: projects to manage your projects. A.
Orlando Sequera: They're mainly part of
Orlando Sequera: predictive projects. We use a lot of it. Predictive Project management is heavier when it comes to documentation
Orlando Sequera: compared to agile projects. We still have documentation in edge of, but less is lightweight compared to predictive. Okay, but they are. They are actually a important
Orlando Sequera: important artifacts that we have to create that are going to help us to
Orlando Sequera: a navigate
Orlando Sequera: our projects, to manage our projects in a more successful and systematic way.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, when we and
Orlando Sequera: they are living documents they're going to be changing. They're going to be evolving.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: we have to make the corresponding changes. As I mentioned before. Probably the only artifact that doesn't really change is the project. Charter. We don't have to go back and change it.
Orlando Sequera: but the rest of the project, documentation and artifacts. They are all living documents, meaning that they need to be updated throughout the life cycle
Orlando Sequera: of your project.
Orlando Sequera: When it comes to the way we do. This planning is not just you as the project manager, doing it on your own ideally is through a collaboration
Orlando Sequera: work with the team. They're the ones that are gonna be doing the work reli. You should rely on the team work with the team.
Orlando Sequera: They should be a, and especially when it comes to a when it comes to agile. If you're following an adaptive approach, the team is self-organized and self manage. They're the ones that are going to be decide that that are going to decide how to do the work in sequence to work that becomes a black box for us
Orlando Sequera: If we're following an adaptive approach the team. Members decide that on their own. They only need to understand the what what type of functionality we're trying. We need.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so in in adaptive. That is the case
Orlando Sequera: predictive. We still work with them. But we have a little bit more same when it comes to sequencing, and i'll have a little bit more input than in an adaptive approach. Okay, but nonetheless, we still have to follow
Orlando Sequera: ideally a collaborative approach
Orlando Sequera: a little bit about the planning across the life cycles
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to the requirements. Specification
Orlando Sequera: in predictive. This has to be defined in specific terms before we start development.
Orlando Sequera: so we have to it. But when it comes, what if we're following a hybrid approach? This is going to be done periodically during delivery, multiple times, and this is in adaptive the same case. It's going to be frequently done during delivery, meaning that the requirements and the scope is going to be change.
Orlando Sequera: The outcome in predictive is usually one big bang at the end of the project. In hybrid it can be incremental and in adaptive at Agile it can be delivered after each iteration, right in increments
Orlando Sequera: based on the functionality that adds the most value to our customers
Orlando Sequera: change. We type.
Orlando Sequera: We try to keep those change as constrained as possible in predictive. Hmm.
Orlando Sequera: Imagine, if you have.
Orlando Sequera: If you're building the house and you have to all this sorting, the the roof is already installed, and now they decided. Oh, we don't want that middle roof. We want to use Spanish style.
Orlando Sequera: Hmm. That's a major
Orlando Sequera: monkey range for your
Orlando Sequera: project, so
Orlando Sequera: that it we keep those a change constraint as much as possible, they in adaptive. No problem change can happen at any time. This can be incorporated in real time. Boarding hybrid
Orlando Sequera: at periodic intervals. Stakeholder involvement usually in predictive, is at specific milestones or significant events in your project in hybrid is regular, and you know that tip is
Orlando Sequera: even more involved is continuous involvement that you have that you need from your stakeholders, because that's how you navigate those changes, and when it comes to the approach of risk and and
Orlando Sequera: and cost
Orlando Sequera: in predictive is very detailed. We have to determine our budget, we have to determine. We have to identify risks and have strategies in place.
Orlando Sequera: Hybrid is more of a progressive elaboration. As more information becomes available, we develop, we analyze, and and we start understanding our risks in our budget.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: we're following an that an agile approach. This system controls of a risk and cost as
Orlando Sequera: requirements and constraints come to to the surface.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: right.
Orlando Sequera: and that
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: this was just an introduction to planning we are. We have been able to cover a
Orlando Sequera: all the topics for today. This was just an introduction to how to differentiate the way we do, planning in
Orlando Sequera: adaptive projects, hybrid and predictive projects
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: basically to understand a little bit of the differences.
Orlando Sequera: please again before
Orlando Sequera: before we
Orlando Sequera: wrap up the session. We have a few minutes left. We're going to address questions
Orlando Sequera: we are going to.
Orlando Sequera: We need you. Please to fill out the survey. Thank you so much, by the way, for
Orlando Sequera: filling out the survey. Yesterday
Orlando Sequera: we got some feedback.
Orlando Sequera: and we are trying to be to incorporate the feedback to
Orlando Sequera: each session to make it better for you. Thank you so much.
Orlando Sequera: But please please please help us to
Orlando Sequera: help us by filling out the survey. Your feedback is great.
Orlando Sequera: and one aspect that you would like to that we would like to make sure that, you understand is the scale.
Orlando Sequera: A higher number is better.
Orlando Sequera: A
Orlando Sequera: extremely likely, if you like the the the session today
Orlando Sequera: we it's a higher number. If you didn't like it so much, or the aspects, then it's a lower number. So please use the scale as intended. That's going to help us
Orlando Sequera: to make the adjustments that we need to make. But your input is very important, and remember that at the end of each session at the end of it each lesson you have vocabulary. This is important for you to get from you. You have this definitions.
Orlando Sequera: a the stakeholder definition, stakeholder analysis. Please make sure that you review that that is important
Orlando Sequera: for you to get ready for your Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: and without any further, do you?
Orlando Sequera: We are going to
Orlando Sequera: address questions that you might have
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: before we wrap up the session. You
Orlando Sequera: please stay locked in until at least 6 Pm. We still have 30 min, and in the room the the remaining minutes i'm going to address the questions
Orlando Sequera: that are in the chat in I'm. Sorry in the Q. A. Not in the chat in the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: Please vote on the questions, and i'm going to address the ones that are, I have the most votes.
Orlando Sequera: Hmm.
Orlando Sequera: If the daily scrum is not a status meeting.
Orlando Sequera: what is the ceremony event where status is reported.
Orlando Sequera: It's a coordination meeting, but it is so involved. You're working with the team members, and they're working with the stakehold with the product owner on a daily basis. That pretty much you have constant stakeholder engagement. You, you don't need to wait until the status report like we do in predictive.
Orlando Sequera: We we're doing that coordination whenever it's needed. We're working hand in hand with our stakeholders. We don't want. We don't need to wait
Orlando Sequera: for a significant event in the project, like we do with predictive that
Orlando Sequera: we have constant interaction with our stakeholders represented by the product owner. But if we need to get in touch with an order stakeholder that that happens, do during the
Orlando Sequera: during the iteration. So
Orlando Sequera: we do not need to have a a status report
meeting.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, that happens through, continues
Orlando Sequera: a interaction continuous engagement with our stakeholders in agile.
Orlando Sequera: Another question: Will the other flavors of agile
Orlando Sequera: like
Orlando Sequera: Xp scrum?
Orlando Sequera: Not necessarily.
Orlando Sequera: They might be mentioned, but mainly
Orlando Sequera: so. A couple of things. Thank you for that question.
Orlando Sequera: The Pmp. Exam. Is not an agile exam. You have the Acp agile, certified practitioner
Orlando Sequera: in that exam. Yes, they go over. They do a deeper dive on the different flavors. But here, mainly, you need to know that it is an approach that it is an adaptive approach.
Orlando Sequera: A. But you don't need to do a deeper dive on the different flavors of agile. So a
Orlando Sequera: my recommendation is
Orlando Sequera: number one. Take questions in test prep. The number 2 is to read the add on Practice Guide. This is an easy to read it.
Orlando Sequera: Give and take a 100 pages, and this covers all the agile that you need to know, for the Pmp. Exam. You need covers everything, and then some, a all the edges that you need to know. Do you need that? You need to know to be dangerous with the Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: What else do we have.
Orlando Sequera: Could you give another example of a status meaning well that isn't predictive where we meet, and we're going to evaluate our performance against our plan? This is our schedule, and this is our plan. We we said that after 3 months we were gonna be able to complete
Orlando Sequera: is 75% of the house, and we have only completed 50 of the house. That's what's happening, or the or we are delayed. This is that that is a typical
Orlando Sequera: project status report meeting right, but the daily scrum is not that. It's just the coordination meeting short and suite where they go over
Orlando Sequera: sharing with
Orlando Sequera: their teammates. This is what I worked on yesterday. This is gonna what i'm gonna be working on today. And more importantly, if they have anything that is preventing them from doing their work. So 2 different things, 2 different things.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Another question.
Orlando Sequera: It in the daily scrum. What is the difference between a consideration of progress? You don't measure progress. You mentioned. What you were working on is the coordination for the team members.
Orlando Sequera: It's it's not about progress. So about what they worked on the day before what they're gonna be doing today, and if they have any roadblocks you're not measuring progress.
Orlando Sequera: The progress is going to be measured with the information that they enter
Orlando Sequera: in something that we call our information radiator. A Camb board is the type of information where they're going to be entering that on a daily basis. You don't need to have a special meeting to track project progress. Your team members are entering that information ideally on a daily basis.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: the scrum exists for produce industries that do not deal with it absolutely. It's used in marketing. It's using, even in construction. So yes.
Orlando Sequera: absolutely
Orlando Sequera: okay.
Orlando Sequera: I that.
Orlando Sequera: So sorry if I miss this. But what is the difference between a status meeting and a daily scrum? Is it Shorter note is the focus of the meeting. You don't go over project status in the Daily Scrum
Orlando Sequera: do. It is a coordination meeting again for the team members to share with the other team members. This is what I worked on before the day before. This is gonna what I'm gonna be working on today.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: these are the roadblocks or impediments that are preventing me the that are preventing me from completing my work. That's what happens in a daily Stand up. A pric status meeting is you go way. Do you go over project progress?
Orlando Sequera: That's what we do in
Orlando Sequera: and in predictive project management.
Orlando Sequera: right?
Orlando Sequera: And a project manager use a consultant help for
Orlando Sequera: free change communication
A.
Orlando Sequera: You should be able to determine
Orlando Sequera: to perform the stakeholder communication analysis, and you should be doing that on your own. You shouldn't
Orlando Sequera: me help from someone from the outside.
Orlando Sequera: With your
Orlando Sequera: With the communication aspect of your project, you should be able to do that as the project manager on your own.
Orlando Sequera: If I understand the question correctly. That is
Orlando Sequera: okay
Orlando Sequera: in the suitability filter. So we read each category and a scale to one to 10, and then connect those dots to make that graphic. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: when asking for a sophisticated report, Where is that?
It looks?
Orlando Sequera: We're standing for documented.
Orlando Sequera: It depends on what report you're referring to. You will need to provide more context to your question.
Orlando Sequera: But you should document those those reports.
Yeah.
Orlando Sequera: the quest you had earlier
Orlando Sequera: the quest you had earlier. Is that an indicative of one of the type of questions that will be in the Exam. Nope.
Orlando Sequera: No, no, no, no; that is just to
Orlando Sequera: validate your knowledge, your
Orlando Sequera: If you want to get exposed to the type of questions, go to test, prep.
Orlando Sequera: Go to test prep.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: go to test prep and take practice questions.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: I'm sorry I means we can. We find the add of Practice Guide. I am not sure if it's on the resources i'm going to defer to the moderators. I'm. 100% sure. But if you're a member of Pmi, you can download a free Pdf version of the other practice guide it's one of the benefits that you have as a member of the Project Management Institute.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
And
Orlando Sequera: what else? What else?
Orlando Sequera: General license specialism? T-shaped people are the same. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: 6 Sigma is about quality. Is not another flavor of agile. By the way, I think I missed that question before.
Orlando Sequera: Are all issues, risks and doing Nope issues and risk of 2 different things. We're going to address that when we get to risk
Orlando Sequera: 6 segment. Yeah, it's part of quality. It's gonna be briefly mentioned, but definitely not.
Orlando Sequera: That's its own discipline
Orlando Sequera: on its own.
Orlando Sequera: but it's part of quality.
Orlando Sequera: A is the agile guide in the resources I will defer to the moderators. I think it is I'm. Not 100% sure.
Orlando Sequera: Besides the practice Exam. And the book. Are there any other online resources. You have everything that you need under the resources Tab.
Orlando Sequera: to be successful. This is official content.
Orlando Sequera: Do you have test? Prep. You have all the resources that you need a in precipit, or if your number CPU, so you can go to Github. You have everything that you need.
Orlando Sequera: Can you please read the entire question. I'm trying. I'm doing my best my apologies.
Orlando Sequera: He's chaos even worth taking upon. Possibly not possibly not. But that is up to the decision makers to
Orlando Sequera: for them to decide.
Orlando Sequera: If the daily scrum is not a status meeting, what is it? It is a coordination meeting for the projecting members.
Orlando Sequera: It's the spring review of status. I mean it's closer to the traditional status meaning, but it's about scope only about scope.
Orlando Sequera: what we build, and we showcase what we built.
Orlando Sequera: What is the difference between a communications match and plan and a communication model
Orlando Sequera: communication model is how the communication actually happens. The communication management plan is the strategy that you're gonna follow in your project
Orlando Sequera: to address project communications. It's a strategy aspect that will be the different
Orlando Sequera: Umhm. The model is, as you said the diagram on how the communication occurs. Correct.
Orlando Sequera: Could you show an example of user stories? We're gonna talk about them later in the class? We just had an overview introduction
Orlando Sequera: to
Orlando Sequera: to that.
Orlando Sequera: A. I may stand for the racing racing matrix. Is.
Orlando Sequera: It's an artifact that we create that
Orlando Sequera: States who's responsible for each task who needs to be consulted, who needs to be informed.
Orlando Sequera: and and who is accountable.
Orlando Sequera: That
Orlando Sequera: helps everyone to be on the same page, on the work that needs to be done. That's what they're racing. Matrix is.
Orlando Sequera: Can the brick sponsor join the daily scrum? Yes, but ideally should be a silent participant.
Orlando Sequera: We went over 6, Sigma.
Orlando Sequera: Are the features done during the pro planning or use of stores? Don't. Know before that before that that's that happens before
Orlando Sequera: right?
Orlando Sequera: All right. So we have come to the end of the session. This is the official end of the session.
Orlando Sequera: Thank you very much. Everyone.
Orlando Sequera: It's been a
Orlando Sequera: it's been a great session. We cover all the content.
Orlando Sequera: Please review your officially. The the session is officially over. I'm going to
Orlando Sequera: to the recording.